What is the procedural mandate of Section 14 under SARFAESI Act, 2002?
The following points clearly explain the procedural mandate of Section 14:
The Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or District Magistrate may grant assistance to the secured creditor in taking possession of the secured asset if a request in writing is made to the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or District Magistrate within whose jurisdiction the secured asset or other document is situated.
The written request shall be accompanied by an affidavit duly affirmed by the authorized officer of the secured creditor affirming that the provisions of the SARFAESI Act and Rules have been complied with by the secured creditor.
On being satisfied about the contents of the affidavit the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or District Magistrate shall pass necessary orders for the purpose of taking the possession of secured assets. The requirement of the affidavit is not applicable to those proceedings which are already pending before the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or District Magistrate on the date of commencement of the Act.
The Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or District Magistrate may delegate the powers to a subordinate officer.
Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or District Magistrate may authorize the use of force for due compliance with the Act and Rules as necessary in the opinion of such Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or District Magistrate.
The order of the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or District Magistrate cannot be questioned in any Court of law or authority. However, the writ jurisdiction under Section 226 and Section 227 is not barred.
What is the effect of non- registration of a Charge (security) with the Registrar of Companies under Companies Act, 2013?
If a charge is not registered with the registrar under the Companies Act, 2013, such charge created by a company shall not be taken into account by the liquidator (appointed under this Companies Act or the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016) or any other creditor unless it is duly registered and a certificate of registration of such charge is given by the Registrar. Additionally, if a charge is registered by a third party prior to the registration of charge in the Banks favour, then such third party charge will have priority over the charge in the Banks favour.
In case of a deceased claim settlement, if there is a discrepancy in the name of the deceased account holder as captured in the death certificate vis-a-vis the details in the records of the Bank, what is the procedure to be followed by the branches?
The branch has to obtain approval for any name variation deviation from Regional Head post conducting appropriate due diligence in accordance with e-circular 9577. The Branch is required to also refer to e-circular 15436 for permissible name variations.
Who is a data subject under the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR)?
The term data subject refers to any living individual who is either a resident in the EU or a living individual whose personal data is collected, held or processed by an organization within the EU.
Can Debt Manager file Sec. 138 Negotiable Instruments Act (NI) Complaint after SARFAESI action initiation?
Yes. There is no bar in initiation of Criminal or Civil action parallelly.
Is The Central Registry of Securitisation Asset Reconstruction and Security Interest of India (CERSAI) filing under The Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Securities Interest Act, 2002 (SARFAESI Act) applicable for pledge of shares? No, it is not applicable.
What documents are to be obtained by the Infra Facility Manager (IFM) for release of rent to legal heir of deceased landlord?
In case of Death of the landlord, the Infra Facility Manager has to obtain-    a. Death certificate, b. Affidavit enumerating the list of legal heirs, c. NOC from legal heirs who are not claimants in rent share, d.  Legal Heirship certificate(optional), e. Indemnity Bond by all the legal heirs- Claimants. Post submission of above documents,  Rent will be released in the name of legal heirs.
What process is to be followed in case of difference between name of the customer as available in the PAN card, PAN site and Account Opening Form (AOF)?
The full name desired on the Account Opening Form (AOF) must match with either the name as provided on the PAN card or as recorded in the PAN site (the database). Please be guided by the process laid down in e-Circular 15436 which also provides a list of permissible and non-permissible deviations in this regard.
What is the approving matrix for initiating legal action in Retail Asset Business - (DSMG)? Debt Manager should obtain whose approval on I-Memo for filing of legal cases?
Please refer COED Note - "Triggers for Legal action" for Approval Matrix for initiation of Legal Action. In case of any query, please coordinate with DSMG Process team.
Does CLG vet the format of the MBPF (maximum permissible bank finance) declaration?
No
Whether foreigners can incorporate an LLP?
Yes, the LLP Act allows foreign nationals including foreign companies & LLPs to incorporate a 
LLP in India provided at least one designated partner is a resident of India. However, the 
LLP/Partners would have to comply with all relevant Foreign Exchange Laws/ Rules/ Regulations/ Guidelines.
Whether any deviations are allowed to the standard transferability/assignment clause for SMEAG cases?
Yes. However, any deviation to the standard clause may be approved jointly by AGM- Business team and AGM- PMSG team. In case of SBLC approval would be required from AGM of IFIG and AGM of Business Group has to approve.
Whether it is mandatory for a client to sign a fresh set of documents for synergy cases from BLG to 
SMEAG?
It is not mandatory for the client to sign a fresh set of documents for all cases transferred from BLG to SMEAG. At present, the client executes only supplemental documents.
Will the statutory moratorium period provided for corporate debtors facing insolvency proceedings under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 apply to guarantors?
No, the statutory moratorium period under Section 14 of IBC provided for corporate debtors facing insolvency proceedings will not apply to guarantors.
What is a certificate under Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872?
This is a certificate required to be produced under the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, when producing an electronic document before the courts/tribunals confirming that the conditions of section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 in terms of the integrity of the document produced have been met.
What would amount to consent under GDPR?
According to Article 4 of GDPR, consent of the data subject means any freely given, specific, informed and unambiguous indication of the data subjects wishes by which he, by a statement or by a clear affirmative action, signifies agreement to the processing of personal data relating to him.
What is to be done if a Branch has received a Notice from Income Tax Authorities requiring personal presence of the Branch Manager (BM)?
In case of notices summoning Branch Manager of the concerned Branch/official of the Branch then such individual is required to ensure appearance before the authorities as per the instructions in the notice. Taxation team must be contacted for their views/ assistance as well. The detailed process has been laid down in e-circular no. 8360.
What is the process to be followed by Debt Manager for withdrawal of Section 138 Negotiable Instruments Act Complaints?
If the Debt Manager wants to withdraw any ongoing Sec 138 NI Act cases due to settlement/payment made by the borrower/customer, then the same is to be informed by the Debt Manager to concerned CLG FPR to get the case withdrawn through the CAPS Legal Module.
What is the frequency of obtaining LAD from borrowers/guarantors/security providers?
LAD is required to be obtained from the Borrowers/Guarantors/Security Providers at an interval of every three years from the date of the original facility agreement or the date of the previous LAD, whichever is recent/later.
What is to be done if the Branch receives a notice from the Official Liquidator of a Company undergoing liquidation directing the Bank to freeze the accounts of such Company maintained with the Bank?
Upon receipt of any such notice, the Branch must raise an SR upon the Central Operations Team immediately to ascertain the details of the bank accounts and marking of freeze thereon. The detailed process note attached hereto must be adhered to strictly.
What are consequences of non-renewal of certificate of registration obtained under Foreign Contribution Regulation Act, 2010 (FCRA)?
The validity of the certificate will expire after 5 (years) and after expiry, the person/association will not be eligible to receive foreign contribution (as defined under the act), without the prior permission of the Central Government.
Can a renewal Credit Arrangement Letter (CAL) on same terms be accepted if the guarantor fails to sign it?
Yes, if the renewal is without any change in terms that it is not required for the guarantor to sign the renewal Credit Arrangement Letter (CAL).
In case, a direction is received from any Police authority, can the Bank mark a freeze/lien on the account(s) of a customer?
Yes, the police authorities are empowered to issue directions upon Banks during the course of investigation and such directions are required to be complied with by the Bank. Such notices must also be shared with FCPRMG for guidance and assistance in issuance of a response. Do follow the process laid down in e-circular No. 14659 in this regard as well.
What is a registered partnership firm?
A partnership firm can be registered under the Partnership Act, 1932, with the concerned Registrar of Firms against which a Certificate of Registration is issued and such firms are commonly referred to as registered firms.
Is the Infra Facility Manager (IFM) required to take any deviation approval  for using the Lease Deed in the earlier format in renewal cases?
Yes. In case if landlord is not agreeing to execute lease deed in the new format of ICICI Bank then the IFM with the prior approval of PC can execute the lease deed in the earlier format. However, in that case, all the clauses which the Bank prefers to avoid/not as per the PC approval/ standard policies should be deleted. Also, if such deletion is not agreeable to landlord, necessary approval needs to be taken by the IFM prior to execution.
Can an Indian entity provide security over movables/immoveable assets in favour of overseas lender?
The provision of security by an Indian entity over movables/immoveable assets in favour of overseas lender is subject to the fulfilment of certain conditions enumerated under Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of any foreign security) Regulations, 2004 and the relevant RBI circulars/guidelines, as amended and/or updated from time to time.
When should an escrow agreement be franked or stamped?
Every agreement is required to be stamped/franked on or before the date of execution of the same as per applicable stamp duty.
What is Right to Restrict Processing under the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR)? This right enables a data subject to limit the processing of his personal data in the following scenarios
(i) the accuracy of the personal data is contested by the data subject, for a period enabling the controller to verify the accuracy of the personal data
(ii) the processing is unlawful and the data subject opposes the erasure of the personal data and requests the restriction of their use instead
(iii) the controller no longer needs the personal data for the purposes of the processing, but they are required by the data subject for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims
(iv) the data subject has objected to processing pursuant to Article 21(1) pending the verification whether the legitimate grounds of the controller override those of the data subject.
When is the Infra Facility Manager (IFM) required to execute the amendatory deed?
The IFM is required to execute the amendatory deed in case if there is any change in any of the original terms of the lease deed.
Does Corporate Legal Group need to vet executed consortium documents including security documents and Title Search Report, if it was not vetted earlier?
As part of standard operating protocol, all transaction documents and TSR are required to be shared with Corporate Legal Group prior to execution.
Is there any registration requirement for an NDU-POA arrangement? or 
Is there any requirement of recording an NDU-POA arrangement with the depository?
Yes, the NDU-POA arrangement is required to be recorded with the depository as per SEBI circular dated June 14, 2017.
What should be the governing law in Standby Letter of Credit (SBLC)?
SBLC is subject to UCP 600 (or ISP 98) and the matters not governed therein shall be subject to domestic laws of the parties which may be captured in the text of SBLC. Do refer to CLG for case specific opinions.
What is the effect of not filing a notice of intimation in case of an equitable mortgage, in Maharashtra?
Filing of notice of intimation is mandatory and if not filed in case of an equitable mortgage, the subsequent transaction by the mortgagor in relation to the property will be void. While we ensure compliance with NOI filing for the equitable mortgage created in our favour/for our benefit, when we are considering a property as security for our loan which is already subject to equitable mortgage, we should also necessarily ensure that NOI for the previous equitable mortgage has been filed.
What is a letter of awareness?
In a letter of awareness, the issuer (typically a parent/ holding company of a borrower or flagship concern of the borrower group) acknowledges the finance transaction between the Bank and the borrower. No credit comfort can be derived from a letter of awareness.
What is netting?
A method of reducing credit, settlement and other risks of financial contracts by aggregating (combining) two or more obligations to achieve a reduced net obligation.
Do foreign currency term loan (FCTL) facility documents need to be initialed on all pages by the parties?
No, as the parties are situated across different geographies and the governing law is English Law, there is no practice of initialing every page. In case the documents are governed by laws of any other jurisdiction, then external counsel's views need to be obtained.
Whether Credit Arrangement Letter (CAL) is to be annexed in CHG-1 Form?
In CHG-1 Form, only the charge creating documents are to be annexed. Since CAL is not a charge creating document, it is not required to be annexed in CHG-1 Form.  It is advised that the CAL is not uploaded on the MCA while filing the Form CHG-1 since it includes  several commercial terms such as pricing etc. which should not be shared with other parties.
Should Loan Recall Notice (LRN)  be issued in deceased cases by Debt Manager?
At the time of issuance of notice, if it is learnt that the borrower/co borrower/guarantor/mortgagor has expired then in that case we should send the notices to the legal heirs of the deceased borrower/co-borrower/guarantor/mortgagor and thereby call upon them to repay the loan amount and if not paid then we can go ahead with filing of suit against the legal heirs of the deceased borrower.
Is it mandatory to make all applicants and Gurrantor as a party in Civil Suit or Original Application filed
Yes, All Loan Gaurrantor / Co-applicant is equally liable for Re-payment of Loan in case of default and hence it is necessary to implead them as party. We must ensure that Loan Recall Notice and Guarantee invocation notice should be issued.
When summons to witness are issued in the name of an employee who is no longer in the employment of the Bank, what is the procedure to be followed?
The summons to witness notice must be shared with local HR team in order to identify the last known address of the ex-employee as per Bank's record. If such address is available, the summons has to be couriered to the ex-employee while preserving the postal receipt and track report as per branch record. On the date of the summons, an authorized branch official to visit the court and provided intimation of the individual summoned being an ex-employee and Bank having forwarded the communication to the last known address. Such intimation to be shared under a covering letter on which acknowledgment to be obtained and preserved as per branch record.
Should SARFAESI Demand Notice be issued in deceased/ death cases by Debt Manager?
At the time of issuance of notice, if it is learnt that the borrower/co borrower/guarantor/mortgagor has expired then in that case we should send the notices to the legal heirs of the deceased borrower/co-borrower/guarantor/mortgagor and thereby call upon them to repay the loan amount and if not paid then we can go ahead with filing of suit against the legal heirs of the deceased borrower provided that the legal heirs has inherited the mortgaged property.
What is the difference between a Lease Deed and a Leave and License agreement?
Under Leave and License Agreements, the legal ownership and the possession of the property remain with the licensor i.e., owner.  whereas under a Lease Deed, a tenant (in our case "Bank") generally has exclusive possession with respect to the property.  Bank prefers to enter into Lease Deed instead of Leave and License Agreement for the reason that duration and rights are better if compared.
Is notice to the borrower required for private treaty sale under SARFAESI Act, 2002?
Yes. 30 days Notice of sale is required to be issued to the borrowers/mortgagors before sale by private treaty.
What is a Garnishee Order?
A garnishee order is an attachment of money against a third party ("the garnishee") who owes money to a judgment debtor ("debtor"), or the Borrower. If a debtor failed to pay money, in terms of a judgment, directly to the judgment creditor ("creditor"), or the Bank. For a garnishee order to be passed decree should already be passed in favour of the Bank.
Who can be appointed as EU Representative under the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR)?
Any natural or legal person who resides in one of the EU Member States can be appointed as a representative in the Union for a non-EU-based controller or processor.
Is it mandatory to sign at the bottom of all the pages of the document?
All pages of the document are required to be signed/initialled by the authorized signatory.
What is Right to object to automated decision making?
The GDPR gives individual the right not to be subject to solely automated decisions that is a decision made solely by automated means without any human involvement, including profiling which is automated processing of personal data to evaluate certain things about an individual.
Is there a process to be followed for e-storage of copy of Receiver Order (RO) and Permission to Sale (PTS) received from Courts?
Yes, DSMG/OG/162 to be referred.
What are the rights of a licensee under a leave and license agreement for immovable property? A licensee only has the right to occupy and use the property as per the terms of the agreement. A licensee does not have absolute possession or ownership of the property.
Whose approval shall be required by the Infra Facility Manager (IFM) to include an uncapped indemnity to be provided in favor of Lessor or Owner by Bank, in Lease Deed?
The Infra Facility Manager (IFM) shall obtain prior approval by way of I-Memo from two Executive Directors/Head IMSG/Zonal Head/Corporate Legal Group for giving an uncapped indemnity in favor of Lessor or Owner, by the Bank in Lease Deed.
What is a deed of re-conveyance?
A deed of re-conveyance is a document executed by a lender who is a mortgagee, to re-convey all rights and interest in the property that was mortgaged to it, back to the mortgagor.
Does hypothecated properties needs to be mentioned in the Demand Notice Under Section 13(2) of the SARFAESI Act, 2002 by Debt Manager?
Yes, Demand Notice should include hypothecated movables.
Is permission of the Public Charity Commissioner required for creation of mortgage over immoveable assets of a public charitable trust?
A public trust is registrable under state wise legislations. Hence, the said legislations must be checked to ascertain the permission requirements. For instance, under the Bombay Public Trusts Act, 1950 no mortgage over the immovable assets of the trust can be created without the prior consent of the Public Charity Commissioner.
Can Debt Manager process lien marking on Director Saving/Current/Fixed Deposit/Recurring Deposit account against the outstanding dues of Borrower Company?
No, as there is no personal liability of the Director for the Debt of the Company. However if the Director has given a Personal Guarantee(PG) a lien can be marked on his account subject to issuance of Guarantee Invocation Notice.
Under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA), who is required to be registered with the Central Government to be eligible to receive a foreign contribution?
Any individual, Hindu Undivided Family (HUF), association or company registered under Section 8 of Companies Act, 2013 having a definite cultural, economic, educational, religious or social program must obtain registration / prior permission from the Central Government, under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act, 2010, to be eligible to receive foreign contribution.
What are the documents sought from the Bank in case a customer intends to file an application against an entity as an operational creditor? What is to be done if Customer asks for a certificate from the bank to confirm that no payments have been received in the customers account from the operational creditor?
Branch to note that as per section 9 (3) (c)-Application  for initiation of Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process(CIRP) by Operational Creditor, a copy of the certificate from the financial institutions maintaining accounts of the operational creditor confirming that there is no payment of an unpaid operational debt by the corporate debtor, if available. Hence, it is not mandatory on the Bank to issue such certificates. however, in case of any specific requests from customers, please seek guidance from Corporate Legal Group(CLG) by obtaining a written request from the customer, along with a copy of the demand notice issued by the customer to the corporate debtor under Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code, 2016(IBC) for reference.
Are Pari-passu letters required in case there is an inter se or inter creditor agreement in place? In syndicated or consortium banking arrangements, the lenders of a common facility may execute an inter-creditor agreement to govern security sharing as well as other mechanism relating to enforcement of security. In such cases, no separate pari-passu letters are required from the banks who have executed the inter-creditor agreement.
However, in case other similarly placed charge-holders have granted other facilities (which are not governed by the inter se or inter creditor agreement), pari-passu letters in respect of sharing of such security will be required. Likewise, a lender who has executed an inter-creditor agreement may have granted other facilities not forming part of the consortium/ syndicated facility and separate pari-passu letters will be required in such cases as well.
What is Demand Notice Under Section 13(2) of SARFAESI Act, 2002?
Notice is issued to the borrower/co-borrower/guarantor/mortgagor on account becoming Non Performing Asset(NPA) and thereby giving him 60 days for paying the entire amount to the bank. This notice is known as Demand Notice.Demand notice is the first step of recovery of dues under the SARFAESI Act.
Can we execute facility agreement in one State and security documents in another State?
Yes, it is possible to execute the facility agreement in one state and security documents in another so long as the counter-party has an established place of business in both states and any differential stamp duty, if arising, is also paid. Applicable stamp duty is to be calculated keeping in mind the jurisdiction clause agreed to by the parties as per the documents. In several cases, where instruments creating security interest are required to be stamped and/or registered, it is advised to execute such documents in the state where the subject security is located.
If original TSR for a secured immoveable property is available with the Bank, is a supplemental TSR required at the time of subsequent mortgage creation?
At the time of subsequent mortgage creation, we may rely on the TSR if the same was issued 3 years prior to the proposed date of mortgage creation. If the original TSR is older than 3 years, it is advised to obtain a supplemental/ revalidated TSR.
Which documents shall be required for conducting title search to generate Title search report(TSR)? A checklist which can be downloaded is provided
What is to be done when one or more co-owners of a mortgaged property cannot be physically present for handover of the title documents?
If one or more co-owners are not able to jointly take custody of the property documents from the Bank, Power of Attorney (POA), as per the format laid down in e-Circular 9560, needs to be executed in favor of the other owner(s) or a third party who is present to take hand over of the documents. The detailed process as mentioned in e-circular no. 9560 to be followed.
Can the title deeds of a Hindu Undivided Family (HUF) be handed over to its Karta?
Yes, title deeds can be handed over to the Karta of a HUF, provided the branch takes a Letter of Indemnity from the Karta and an Undertaking cum Indemnity from the co-parceners to the effect that Karta can collect the documents on behalf of the co-parceners and give acknowledgment on a No-Objection Certificate (NOC). Detailed process laid down in e-Circular 9560 to be followed in such cases.
For Formats of the Letter of Indemnity and undertaking cum indemnity please refer: Retail Banking Forms and Format >> Asset
Are the partners of a partnership firm personally liable to repay the obligations of the partnership firm?
Yes, in accordance with the Partnership Act, 1932, a partner is jointly and severally liable for all the acts done by the firm. Therefore, any obligations undertaken by the partnership firm will lead to the partners (jointly and severally) of the firm being personally liable.
In case an equitable mortgage is created over a property located in Mahrashtra, what is the process of sending a Notice of Intimation (NOI) and what are thestamp duty implications?
A notice of intimation of mortgage of property in Maharashtra may be filed in physical or  online form. In case of online filing,  one may use the e-Filing module available on the IGR website. This facility is available at igrmaharashtara>Online Services>eFiling.
If the stamp duty has been duly paid on the mortgage documents, a stamp duty of INR 100 shall be payable on the NOI. Further, as per Maharashtra e-Registration and e-filing Rules, 2013 and table of fees published under Sec. 78 of Registration Act, 1908, fee for NOI filing is Rs. 1000/- per notice in Maharashtra. Kindly ensure that latest stamp laws and rules are checked in this regard.
Who are miners?
Miners are like accountants who record the transactions on the blockchain. Miners create blocks for the blockchain by solving complex mathematical problems using advanced computing power that validate blockchain transactions.
Can the Bank mark a freeze/lien on an account pursuant to a written request received from another Bank alleging fraudulent transactions?
Any freeze/lien can only be marked on receipt from directions of Court, government authorities/law enforcement authorities. However, lien marking may be made as a banking prudence in exceptional scenarios after due diligence on the alleged transaction and necessary approvals from the ZBPM & RH. The branch has to ensure that a suitable response be issued to the account holder intimating him of marking of lien pursuant to the request received from other banks and requesting him to clarify if the alleged fraudulently credited funds have a legitimate source. The Branch has to raise a fraud SR on FCPG so that suitable investigation may be carried out as well.
Whether the landmark judgements by the Supreme Court in the Harshad Govardhan and Vishal Kalsaria case have any significance on the timelines as inserted in Section14 under SARFAESI Act? Pursuance to ammendment in Section 14 in 2016, the CMM/DM must determine the existence of any third party interests in the secured property and accordingly provide opportunity of hearing to such third party as may be required on case to case basis.
Within how many days a financial creditor should submit proof of its claim to the IRP? A financial creditor should submit proof of its claim to the IRP within 14 days from the date of appointment of IRP.
Manual alteration on partnership deed as regards the name of the firm or date of incorporation - whether the same can be accepted for the purposes of account opening?
The manual alteration if duly countersigned by all partners wherein the alteration has been carried out along with notarization of the deed accompanied by a letter on the letterhead of the firm issued by all the partners confirming such alteration may be accepted and indemnifying the Bank in the event of mis-representation on their part. Further the change in name or date of incorporation to be matched against the trade licence/PAN Card and registration certificate (if applicable).
What is Gold Metal Loan?
Gold Metal Loan (GML) is a mechanism under which a jewellery manufacturer borrows gold metal instead of rupees and settles the GML with the sale proceeds obtained. GML can be availed for 180 days in case of domestic jewellery manufacturers and for 270 days in case of exports. GML is a combined product wherein gold metal is advanced along with a gold forward (if required).
By when the Compliance of Receiver Order in case of possession of Assets should be filed before Court/Tribunal?
Receiver Report should be filed immediately after taking the possession of the asset before Court/Tribunal without any delay.
Can a One Person Company (OPC) be converted into a Private Limited Company?
Yes, an One Person Company can be converted into a private limited company. In case the paid up share capital of a One Person Company exceeds fifty lakh rupees or its average annual turnover of immediately preceding three consecutive financial years exceeds two crore rupees, then the OPC has to mandatorily convert itself into private or public company.
What are the rates of payable stamp duty on different documents?
Branches to visit Corporate Legal Group DMS on UNIVERSE and refer to the stamp duty as applicable on different documents in a particular State.
What kind of information does the GDPR apply to? GDPR applies to "personal data" of data subject.
Can equitable mortgage be created when original title deeds are misplaced/lost/untraceable? Equitable mortgage requires the deposit of original title deeds conferring title on to a mortgagor. A simple/ legal mortgage, wherein the Indenture of Mortgage is registered before the concerned SubRegistrar of Assurances, will have to be created, along with receipt of certified true copies of title deeds. The facts will also have to be analysed on a case to case basis in consultation with CLG.
What is Annexure W?
Annexure W is the standard format prescribed by National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) for creation of pledge. Please note that the nomenclature Annexure W has now been changed to Form 28.
Is filing of Form CHG-1 required in case of a pledge? Yes and the filing has to be done by the pledgor.
Can freeze be marked on a jointly held account upon receipt of instructions  from one of the joint account holder's where the mode of operation is Either/ Or/ Survivor
No. Removal of freeze may be processed only upon receipt of joint instructions from all the account holders. The branch to approach local Legal FPR in case any notices have been issued by the requestor.
Is resolution Under Section 180(1) (a) of the Companies Act, 2013 required for movable fixed assets?
Yes, resolution under section 180(1)(a) Companies Act, 2013 is required, if the movable fixed assets constitutes whole or substantially the whole of the undertaking of the Company.
Is resolution under 62(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 required if the loan documents do not have a right to convert debt into equity?
No, in such cases, there is no requirement of obtaining such a resolution.
What court fees does a person preferring appeal against the order of the State Commission to the National Commission have to deposit?
A deposit of fifty percent of the amount ordered by State Commission is to be paid.
What is meant by adjudication of instruments?
Adjudication is the process by which an opinion of the Collector of Stamps is obtained as to the stamp duty, if any, payable on any instrument or document.
Whether KMP certified letters can be obtained in place of CA/CS certificates for SMEAG cases? Yes, KMP certified letters can be obtained in place of CA/CS certificates for SMEAG cases
Can documents executed in Delhi be stored in Mumbai?
No.
What is the procedure if the mutation entry in the revenue records is in the name of the co-operative society of which the mortgagor is a member?
In case the mutation entry is in the name of the co-operative society, a no-objection certificate for mortgage is to be obtained from the co-operative society in the format available on DMS link - http://universe.icicibankltd.com/businessgroups/legal/HTMLs/dms_misc.htm#conf1
Is electronic record a document under the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958?
Electronic records as defined in the Information Technology Act, 2000 are covered under the definition of document under the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958. As defined in the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, document means any matter expressed or described upon any substance by means of letters, figures or marks or by more than one of those means, intended to be used, or which may be used, for the purpose of recording that matter.
What is to be done if a notice is received at the Branch from Economic Offence Wing ("EOW")? Branch to send the Notice to FCPRMG team immediately for guidance. Branch shall also refer to E-Circular No. 14659 and raise Service Request(SR) for guidance.
Is Infra Facility Manager (IFM) required to obtain a Title Search Report (TSR) on the Letter Head of the Advocate?
Yes. The IFM must obtain the TSR on the letter head of the empanelled Advocate and the same needs to be duly signed and stamped by the Advocate.
Can a borrower execute documents at any other place other than the corporate office or registered office or branch office of that company?
Yes, however it is preferred that the borrower execute the documents at the place of its corporate or registered office. However, in case it is not feasible due to any issue, then before execution, it should be ascertained that there is a nexus between the place of execution and the place of business of the borrower.
Sometimes the board resolution (BR) specifies that more than one persons are authorised to sign a certain document without specifying that such mode of operation will be severally or jointly. How should such BR be processed?
Where the board resolution provides no clarity regarding the mode of operation, please seek a clarification letter from the Company Secretary, wherever applicable, or board members on the letterhead of the entity regarding the intended mode of operation prior to acting on the same.
What is personal data under GDPR?
Personal Data is defined in Article 4 of GDPR as any information relating to an identifiable person who can be directly or indirectly identified in particular by reference to an identifier.
Does a Letter Acknowledging Debt (LAD) have to be executed on stamp paper? Or  Does a revenue stamp in Letter Acknowledging Debt (LAD)  need to be signed across?
The revenue stamp affixed on the LAD is in the nature of adhesive stamp. As per the Indian Stamp Act, the adhesive stamp affixed on documents needs to be cancelled so that the same may not be used again. Any instrument bearing an adhesive stamp which has not been cancelled/defaced shall, so far as stamp is concerned, be deemed to be unstamped.
Therefore, the signatory can cancel it by writing on or across the stamp his name or initials or the name or initials of his firm with the date of his so writing, or in any other effectual manner. Currently, one signature across revenue stamp and one signature separately is taken, as per process. 
A separate signature is taken apart from the signature across the revenue stamp, because if the revenue stamp comes out or is lost, then there is a separate complete/proper signature on the LAD document.
In relation to settlement of deceased claims, what process is to be followed in case the death of customer happened abroad?
In case where the customer has died abroad, the death certificate issued by the government department of the country where the death has occurred is required to be obtained. The death certificate has to be certified thereafter by an Indian Notary or it has to be certified by an Indian Embassy or under The Hague Convention, an Apostle Certificate should be issued. The detailed process laid down in e-Circular 9577 is to be followed.
Does the Advocate need to take search with the Sub-Registrar Office (SRO) for preparing Title Search Report (TSR)?
Yes. The Advocate should conduct search with Sub-Registrar Office (SRO) for identifying any encumbrance, Lis Pendens or Litigation in respect of the premises while preparing Title Search Report (TSR).
What is Dasti Order?
Dasti order is order passed by court to served through BY-Hand delivery of Summon/Notice.
Is a third-party security provider required to provide a shareholders' resolution under Section 180(1) (c) of the Companies Act, 2013?
No, the section pertains to only borrowing limits of a company.
Does the Non Disposal Undertaking need to be stamped?
Yes. It should be stamped as per rates applicable to General Agreement + Indemnity (if there is an indemnity clause).
How to reconstruct the title deeds of mortgaged property, if lost from the custody of Bank? In case of loss of title deeds from the Banks custody, the Bank is firstly required to send an intimation of such loss to the mortgagor and thereafter, obtain a consent letter from mortgagor authorizing ICICI bank to recreate the title deeds and retain them till such time that the loan stands repaid. Thereafter, an FIR stating the fact of loss, is to be filed by the Bank, in the police station where such title deeds have been lost. After this, a public notice asking for objections, if any, is to be published in minimum two newspaper (1 English and 1 vernacular language where the FIR is lodged and where the property is situated) by an independent lawyer, who would submit a report to the Bank on the basis of responses received by him. Finally, copy of FIR, consent letter, public notice and advocate report are to be submitted with Registrar and certified true copies of title deeds can be obtained. These certified true copies will be considered as original title deeds. Please use the format of public notice provided in DMS. 
The path is given below:
DMS -Business Use -Reference Material -Public to be issued for loss or misplacement of Original Title Documents
In case of deceased borrower, Can Debt Manager process lien marking on his current/saving/fixed deposit/recurring deposit account?
Only lien marking is allowed subject to DGM and above approval from DSMG capturing the deviation and risk involved. 
Only in cases wherein official intimation of Death is received. Lien intimation is to be issued to all account holders including nominee and legal heirs (if any). 
Set off is subject to written consent from legal heirs/nominee on case to case basis under deviation approval from AGM and above.
What the modes of sale of property under SARFAESI Act, 2002?
The properties can be sold in following ways - 
1) by obtaining quotations from the persons dealing with similar secured assets or otherwise interested in buying the such assets or
2) by inviting tenders from the public
3) by holding public auction through e-auction mode or 4) by private treaty
What process should be adopted in case the banking operation/account operation mandate clause is not provided in the partnership deed?
In such cases, the mode of operations (MOP) mentioned in the Authority Letter obtained from the Partnership, duly signed by all the partners, must specify the banking operation / account operation mandate.
What are the documents required to be handed over to Legal Manager by Debt Manager for filing a Complaint Under Section 138 NI Act?
Documents required for filing a complaint Under Section 138:
1. Original dishonored cheques. 2. Original of cheque returned memos of the Drawer and the Drawee Bank. 3. A Statement of accounts of the customer (if available). 4. Original Notice sent along with the postal receipt and acknowledgment received from the            customer.
What is the purpose of appointment of EU Representative under GDPR?
The purpose of an EU representative is to make sure organizations located outside the EU have a physical presence in the EU as a point of contact for questions and investigations.
What is the stamp duty applicable on a Conveyance Deed?
Stamp duty rates are updated on DMS and can be verified for each State. The path for the same is as follows. Universe> Business Group> Corporate Centre> Corporate Legal Group > Home > Business Use > Reference Material. For clarifications please reach out to the relevant CLG team.
Can information regarding an account/account holder be shared with other 
Banks/Institutions/Company, by Branches in the absence of any statutory orders/directions? No. Branches shall not share any account/account holder details with third parties in the absence of directions from a court of law or law enforcement agencies.
When does the rights of the Bank under a leave and license agreement get terminated?
As a license is a personal and exclusive right, that a licensee acquires upon entering into a lease and license agreement, such rights get terminated upon the expiry of the tenure of the arrangement or on the death of the licensee whichever is earlier unless otherwise agreed to between the parties.
What must be the prayers in the Section 14 Application under SARFAESI Act, 2002?
1. Seeking orders for taking physical possesion 
2. Seeking assistance of the court for taking physical possession including breaking open the locks, if the property is found to be locked, and thereby, take physical possesion.
What are the information /documents required for sending notice under section 138 of Negotiable Instruments Act?
Documents required for sending notice under section 138 of Negotiable Instruments Act are:  (I) 
Account information of the card holder/Personal loan (ii) Copies of dishonored cheques (iii) Copies of cheque return memos of the Drawer and the Drawee Bank (iv) Information regarding the name and address of drawer of the cheque where notice has to be dispatched. (v) Statutory period for sending the notice is 30 days from the date of receipt of intimation of the dishonored cheques. In case of partnership firm, the notice should be sent to the firm and all the partners. In case of Public Limited /Private Limited Company the notice should be sent to the Company and all the Directors at registered office address as well as on all available addresses of the Directors. Necessary information must be furnished to the LPO/lawyer well in advance for issuance of the notice under section 138.
What is to be done if adequate Stamp Duty is not paid on consortium or joint documents where ICICI is not the lead bank?
Business Group is required to engage with the Lead Bank for payment of adequate stamp duty.
Does application form and terms and conditions for standalone Letter Of Credit (LC) / Bank Guarantee (BG) need to be stamped?
No
When is filing of Form CHG-1 required?
It is the duty of every company creating a charge on any of its assets to register the particulars of the charge by filing Form CHG-1. Filing of charge would be required to be done when charge/security is created on any of its properties or assets or any of its undertakings, whether tangible or otherwise, whether situated in or outside India. As per the Companies (Amendment) Act, 2019, charge is to be registered within 30 days of its creation. If not, charge may be registered within 60 days of its creation on payment of prescribed additional fees. Charge may be registered within a further period of 60 days i.e. within 120 days of its creation, after payment of prescribed advalorem fees. There is no provision to file charge after 120 days of its creation.
Are BRs signed and stamped only on the last page acceptable?
All pages are required to be signed or initialed by the authorized signatory on behalf of the company. However, if the BR has been signed and stamped then the same may be accepted even if the same is only on the last page. Rubber stamp may be affixed on only the last page and execution formalities should be done in compliance with the internal policies of the bank.
What are the steps involved in filing of Debt Recovery Tribunal (DRT) Suit?
1. Limitation - Before proceeding for filing of application before DRT one should ensure that the same is within limitation. The period of limitation of 3 years from the date of the last payment received / paid by the borrower in his loan account. Any application made after the limitation period of 3 years becomes time barred the bank cannot file a delay condonation application.
2. Notice - Once the limitation aspect is taken care of then a Loan recall notice has to be sent to the borrower / guarantor thereby giving him not more than 7 days time to pay the entire amount due. 
The amount demanded should be the same as reflected in the Statement of accounts.
3. Application to the Tribunal - The bank, which stands to recover loans and other debts, shall initiate the procedure, by, first, forwarding an application along a court fee, to the Tribunal as per the grid issued by Govt..
4. Issue of Summons: Summons will be issued by the DRT to the defendants asking them to show cause within 30 days of the service of summons why the reliefs should not be granted.
5. Appearance of Defendants
- If Defendants appear the matter will be posted for written statement.  - If the Defendant does not appear after service of summons, the matter will be placed before Presiding Officer for passing the necessary orders. (the Defendants will be set ex-parte and the matter will be posted for affidavit in lieu of evidence of Applicant by the Presiding Officer, since the Registrar does not have powers to pass any orders)
6.     Evidence Posting - Once the Defendants file written statement, the matter will be posted for the evidence of the parties before Presiding Officer. At this stage the Applicant bank shall along with the affidavit enclose all the original documents in support of their claim.
b. Evidence of Defendants by way of affidavit. Cross-examination may be permitted only if the Presiding Officer of DRT is of the view that cross-examination is indeed necessary
7. Arguments
8. Pronouncement of Orders:- Where a decree or order has been passed by a court before the commencement of the Recovery of Debts to Banks and Financial institutions (Amendment) 2000 and has not yet been executed, then, the decree holder may apply to the Tribunal to pass an order for recovery of the amount. On receipt of this application, the Tribunal may issue a certificate of recovery to the Recovery Officer.
9. Recovery Certificate:  On receipt of a certificate, the Recovery Officer shall proceed to recover the amount as if it was a certificate in respect of a debt recoverable under this Act. The Recovery officer can take following steps for recovery of amount mentioned in the Recovery Certificate: - Attachment and sale of movable or immovable property of the Defendant. - Arrest of Defendant and detention in prison. - Appointing a receiver for management of movable or immovable properties of Defendant.
While sanctioning a loan facility to a borrower which is proposed to be guaranteed by a partnership firm, what is to be done if the partnership agreement does not have a guarantee clause? In such a situation, the RM shall be required to engage with the partnership firm through its partners/managing partner and advise to have a suitable guarantee clause incorporated by amending the partnership deed prior to execution of the guarantee related documents and the disbursement of facility. This is to safeguard the interests of the Bank and avoid any dispute being raised by the firm in future in respect of the proposed guarantee being extended by the firm. However, in case the guarantor firm is unable to complete the said formalities due to any reasons whatsoever, the issue shall then be required to be treated on a case-specific basis and the matter may be referred to the local CLG for views.
Should a partnership firm providing guarantee for other borrower/s be a registered firm? No. Partnership firms are not required to be mandatorily registered under the Partnership Act, though certain States may have mandatory requirements. Please check with your local CLG FPR.
Who can certify documents relating to a lending facility?
Either statutory auditor/ Key Management Personnel (as applicable) depending upon the nature of the certification required in connection with the Facility. 
In case of Rupee Term Loan, the end use certificates should be obtained in a manner provided in the Credit Supervision Mechanism.
Where a cheque/NACH mandate has been given only as a security and not as repayment of a loan, whether an offence under Negotiable Instruments Act is made out for dishonour when this cheque/NACH is dishonoured?
Yes. However, Loan Recall Notice to be issued first and then security post dated cheque/NACH mandate to be presented and it should get bounced due to insufficient funds. Also, the cheque/mandate amount should be equal to or less than the amount outstanding as per the Loan Recall Notice.
What is the principle of purpose limitation under the General Data Protection Regulations?
According to this principle, which is laid down in Article 5 of the General Data Protection 
Regulations, personal data shall be collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes and shall not be further processed in a manner that is incompatible with the purposes for which it was collected.
When is section 180 of Companies Act, 2013 not applicable?
Section 180 of the Companies Act, 2013 is not applicable to private limited companies. Section 180 of the Companies Act is only applicable to loans availed by a public limited company and/or deemed public company (a company which is a subsidiary of a company which is not a private company). Shareholders resolution under section 180(1)(c) is not applicable/required to be obtained for working capital facilities.
Whether the Appellant Court direct the release of amount deposited by the Accused-Appellant Customer to the Complainant Bank at any time during the pendency of the Appeal?
Yes. As per Section 148 of Negotiable Instruments Act. Provided that if the appellant-accused is acquitted, the court shall direct the complainant to repay to the Appellant the amount so released, with interest at the bank rate as published by the RBI, prevalent at the beginning of the relevant financial year, within 60 days from the date of order, or within such further period not exceeding thirty days as may be directed by the court on sufficient cause being shown by the Complainant.
Is a Shortfall Undertaking/ Sponsor Support Undertaking a security? No, they are contractual comforts.
Is it required to stamp the document/agreement for assignment of receivables as defined under the Factoring Regulation Act 2011 (FRA) under the Indian Stamp Act 1899?
The document/agreement for assignment of receivables (as defined under FRA) in favour of a factor is not liable to stamp duty under the Indian Stamp Act or any other law for the time being in force.
What is the process to be followed by Branches on queries relating to removal of Debit Freeze marked in any account?
Branches shall ascertain the reasons for marking of freeze as per records and seek guidance from the concerned internal team which had requested the Branch to mark freeze on the account and only in case of the reasons for marking of freeze having been satisfied the freeze may be removed.  In case of any disconnect, the branches may draw upon the local Legal FPR for guidance upon furnishing the available details and documents.
Whether limitation is applicable for lien marking by Debt Manager?
No
What is an auto-renewal clause in a bank guarantee?
An auto-renewal clause in a bank guarantee text provides that the guarantor / issuing bank is obligated to renew the bank guarantee, as per the terms contained therein.
What happens to the interim compensation if in case the customer is acquitted by the court under Section 138 Negotiable Instruments Act Complaint, what Debt Manager should do?
As per Sec. 143A of Negotiable Instruments (Amendment) Act, if the accused-drawer of the cheque is acquitted, the Court shall direct the complainant-bank to repay to the drawer the amount of interim compensation, with interest at the bank rate as published by the RBI within 60 days from the date of order can be further extended to 30 days.
What details should mandatorily be captured in the Notice of Intimation (NOI)?
The format of an NOI for creation of mortgage may be prescribed by State Governments where filing an NOI is mandatory. For example, the format for the NOI with respect to equitable mortgages created over properties situated in Maharashtra is provided for on the IGR website. In the event there is no prescribed format, the following details should be included in the NOI
1 Name and address of the mortgagor and mortgagee
2 Date of mortgage
3 Amount received under the mortgage
4 Rate of interest payable
5 List of documents deposited
6 Description of the immovable property (in the manner provided in section 21 of the Registration Act, 1908)
What is to be done in case of deceased claim settlement of a minor account?
In case of death of a minor, the claim is to be settled in favour of the legal guardian of the deceased. In case of death of minor and guardian, claim is settled in favour of the registered nominee of the deceased. In case there is no nominee, claim to be settled in favor of legal heirs of the minor as per process laid down in e-Circular 9577.
If security clearance memo has not been moved does it mean that the security has not been created and perfected?
No. Security clearance memo is moved to record the creation and perfection of security. As standard operating protocol within the Bank, security clearance memos are required to be moved to ensure accuracy of internal records. In exceptional cases such as an urgency of disbursement, a confirmation on the dates of creation and perfection of security can be taken from the Corporate Legal Group on email, in accordance with the banks process.
What is to be done if police have issued notice to a branch and asking to furnish customer documents or account related details for investigation purposes?
Police authorities are empowered under law to seek information from Banks for the purposes of investigation and the branch shall be required to comply with such directions. The notice received at the Branch to be shared with FCPG team and seek guidance on responding to the notice. Branch to also refer to e-circular No.14659 and raise Service Request(SR) in this regard. The detailed process for parting with original documents has been provided in Clause 3.11 of e-circular no. 14659 which is required to be followed by the Branch.
What Debt Manager should do if the borrower is deceased during the pendency of Civil/Section 138 NI Act/OA proceedings?
In case of a deceased borrower, Debt Manager to provide a confirmation of borrower death along with list of his/her legal heirs and their addresses to Legal Manager-Retail Legal Group enabling them to submit the same before the court. Any criminal proceedings including Section 138 proceedings against deceased borrower shall be dropped. No fresh criminal cases should be filed against such borrower. Legal Heirs of the Deceased Borrower should be made party to the case.
Under the Uniform Rules for Demand Guarantees (URDG) 758 in how many days should the payment be made under a guarantee that has been invoked?
Unless otherwise agreed, under URDG an issuing bank is required to examine the presentation made by the beneficiary within 5 business days following the day of presentation. A guarantor is obligated to make a payment when it determines that the presentation(demand) is a complying presentation
In case funds have been transferred to the account of a wrong beneficiary (a customer of ICICI Bank), what process is to be followed for effecting a reversal of funds?
In case there has been an error on the part of the customer, then the reversal can be made only upon receipt of debit consent from the beneficiary or an order from a court of law or competent authority. The detailed process as set out in e-Circular 9574 shall be required to be followed. In case, there has been a lapse at the end of the Branch, immediate lien should be marked on the beneficiary account to the extent of the amount transferred inadvertently and suitable communication has to be issued requesting the beneficiary to provide debit consent and also fund the account in case there is insufficient balance in the account.
What are the Exceptions under SARFAESI Act, 2002 in which SARFAESI action cannot be initiated by Debt Manager?
As per Section 31 of the SARFAESI Act, No action can be taken if: (i) It is an Agricultural land.(ii) The amount due is less than Rs. 10,00,00/-.(iii) The amount due is less than 20% of the Principal amount and interest thereon i.e if the borrower has repaid more than 80% of the Principal amount and interest.(iv) The debt is time barred under limitation Act.(v) lien is on any goods, money or security given by or under the Indian Contract Act, 1872 or the Sale of Goods Act, 1930 or any other law for the time being in force. (vi) a pledge of movables within the meaning of S. 172 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872.(vii) creation of any security in any aircraft as defined in clause (1) of S. 2 of the Aircraft Act, 1934.(viii) creation of security interest in any vessel as defined in clause (55) of S. 3 of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958.(ix) any rights of unpaid seller under S. 47 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930(x) any properties not liable to attachment (excluding the properties specifically charged with the debt recoverable under this Act) or sale under the first proviso to S. 60(1) of CPC. (xi) any security interest for securing repayment of any financial assistance for educational purpose; (xii) any security interest created for financial assistance not exceeding twenty lakhs rupees for agricultural purpose;(xiii) any security interest for securing repayment of any financial assistance not exceeding twenty lakhs rupees for self employment.xiv) any case in which the right or ownership or possession of any security interest created for securing repayment of any financial assistance not exceeding fifteen lakhs rupees is vested with senior citizens, widows and differentlyabled persons with more than sixty per cent. disabilities; (xv) any case in which the right or ownership or possession of any security interest created for securing repayment of any financial assistance is vested with the persons undergoing treatment for cancer, Acquired Immuno Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) and organ transplantation; and (xvi) any security interest created in land with residential building not exceeding an extent of five per cent. in cities, ten per cent. in towns and fifteen per cent in Panchayat for financial assistance not exceeding Rs. fifteen lakhs.
What is Dematerialization of shares?
Dematerialization is a process by which the physical certificates of an investor are actually destroyed and an equivalent number of such certificates are credited in the electronic holdings of that investor.
What if borrowers admit partial claim of the bank?
If borrowers admit partial claim of bank/ARC and disputes the other part of claim, in such case the DRT may order to pay such admitted part of debt.
What is to be done if there is mismatch of commercial details between executed documents and sanction terms?
Respective Business Group to be consulted for clarification and rectification to be done in consultation with CLG.
If the certificate of incorporate of an OPC does not specify the name of a director, who will be considered as a director?
The sole member/shareholder shall be considered as the director.
What are the pre-requisites for creation of security over MIDC properties?
MIDC consent letter and tripartite agreement needs to be obtained before creation of security over MIDC properties.
Can pledge created by the pledgor over dematerialized shares be closed unilaterally by the pledgor? No, it requires confirmation from the pledgee prior to closure
In case of Memorandum of Entry (MOE), is it necessary that a ICICI Bank official witnesses the deposit of title deeds? Yes.
Why Stamp Duty has to be paid on instrument?
The payment of stamp duty on instruments bestows legality on them and gets evidentiary value in a court of law. The instruments which are not properly stamped are not admitted in evidence.
Can a limited liability partnership(LLP) have only one partner?
No. An LLP must have at least two partners at all times. In an LLP, at least two partners must be designated partners, who are individuals and at least one of them shall be a resident in India.
Whether civil court have jurisdiction for the subject matter covered in the SARFAESI Act, 2002? As per Section. 34 of the SARFAESI Act, 2002, No civil court shall have jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceeding in respect of any matter in which a DRT or DRAT is empowered by or under this Act to determine and no injunction shall be granted by any court or other authority in respect of any action taken or to be taken in pursuance of any power conferred by or under this Act or under the DRT Act.
What is the validity period of a cheque once issued?
The validity period of cheques is 3 (three) months from the date of issuance and cheques can be represented during its validity period in case of having been dishonoured at the time of initial presentment.
What is the deposit to be made for filing appeal against orders of the recovery officer in DRT? Where an appeal is preferred against the orders of the Recovery officer under the DRT Act, by any person from whom the amount of debt is due to a bank or financial institution or consortium of banks or financial institutions, such appeal shall not be entertained by the Tribunal unless such person has deposited with the Tribunal 50% of the amount of debt due as determined by the Tribunal.
Whether the assets of the Bank/branch can be attached by EPFO under the Act?
Yes. Non-compliance of the directions issued under notice issued to the Bank may entitle the EPFO to attach the assets of the Bank/branch.
What are the rights of licensor and licensee?
A licensee only has the right to occupy and use the property as per the terms of the agreement. A licensee cannot transfer his right over the property and also does not have absolute possession/ownership of the property.
What are the measures available Under Section 13(4) of the SARFAESI Act, 2002?
In case the borrower fails to discharge his liability in full within 60 days of the demand notice Under Section 13(2), the secured creditor may take recourse to one or more of the following measures to recover his secured debt - 1. take possession of the secured assets of the borrower including the right to transfer by way of lease, assignment or sale for realizing the secured asset. 2. take over the management of the business of the borrower including the right to transfer by way of lease, assignment or sale for realizing the secured asset-provided that the right to transfer by way of lease, assignment or sale shall be exercised only where the substantial part of the business of the borrower is held as security for the debt-provided further that where the management of whole of the business or part of the business is severable, the secured creditor shall take over the management of such business of the borrower which is relatable to the security for the debt. 3. appoint any person as manager to manage the secured assets the possession of which has been taken over by the secured creditor. 4. require at any time by notice in writing, any person who has acquired any of the secured assets from the borrower and from whom any money is due to the borrower, to pay the secured creditor, so much of the money as is sufficient to pay the secured debt.
What is Principle of Purpose Limitation under GDPR?
According to this principle, the data shall be collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes and shall not be further processed in a manner that is incompatible with the purposes for which it was collected.
In which forum lies the Appeal against the order of DRT in Original Application (OA) filed before it. Can Customer challenge it?
Yes, before Debt Recovery Appellate Tribunal (DRAT).
Does Corporate Legal Group vet the format of the MBPF (maximum permissible bank finance) declaration?
No
Is a letter of comfort or a guarantee considered as security? No, they are contractual comforts.
What is the procedure if an HUF is a partner in the partnership firm?
A Hindu Undivided Family (HUF) cannot be a partner in a partnership firm. If an individual has signed a partnership deed as a Karta of an HUF or on behalf of an HUF, only such individual is to be considered a partner in such partnership firm. An NOC must be obtained from the other members of the HUF in the format available on DMS Link - http://universe.icicibankltd.com/businessgroups/legal/HTMLs/dms_misc.htm#m12.
Can a Company OR Trust OR Association OR Club OR Firm be a nominee in an account? No. None of the said entities may be provided as a nominee in an account.
What can be done when the mortgagor is not able to furnish title deeds other than those which confer title on the mortgagor?
In such cases, the mortgage transaction may be completed in consultation with CLG, based on available title deeds and execution of undertaking cum indemnity, subject to the title of the mortgagor being clear and marketable. The formats of undertaking cum indemnity are set out in Annexure X A (for borrower as mortgagor) and Annexure X B (for third party as mortgagor) of the Mortgage Manual. The same is available on DMS> Home >  Business Use  >  Reference Material  > Mortgage Instruction Manual.
For how many years can a bank hold non-banking assets?
As per Section 9 of Banking Regulation Act, 1949 a non-banking asset held by a bank has to be disposed off within 7 years of its acquisition.
What is Right to Rectification under GDPR?
Individuals have a right to have their personal data rectified if it is inaccurate or incomplete.
What is the procedure if the constitutional documents of a company does not have a  guarantee clause?
The constitutional documents of the company shall have to be amended to include a guarantee clause, before the company provides a guarantee.
Can Debt Manager process lien marking on Guarantor Savings/Current Account against the outstanding dues of Individual borrower?
Post issuance of Guarantee Invocation Notice, lien can be marked. However, Set Off is subject to issuance of Lien Intimation and Guarantee Invocation notice in case of Personal Guarantee on case to case basis subject to Senior Product Head approval capturing the availability of all notice acknowledgments.
What are the kind/type of civil suits that can be filed by Debt Manager?
The following are the kind of Suits
1. Order XXXVII  - Summary Procedure for recovery. 
2. Order XL        - Appointment of Receivers 
3. Sec 67 Transfer of Property Act -  Suits Relating to foreclosure of Secured Immovable Property. 
4. Arbitration - Can be initiated only if our agreement has arbitration clause (our agreement are not having this clause)
For recovery of money normally we file civil / ordinary suits as provided under Civil Procedure Code. These suits can be filed not only for recovery of money but also for injunction depending upon the facts of a particular case. If the amount of the claim is over Rs. 10 lakhs case should only be filed before DRT except for ICICI Home Finance (HFC) Cases.
What to do if an Undertaking/ Declaration is executed on letter head instead of plain paper?
It is ok to accept the document on the letter head as long as the applicable stamp duty is paid.
By when cheque bounce notice can be issued by Debt Manager?
The cheque bounce notice should be dispatched within the period of 30 days from the date when cheque gets the dishonoured.
Is a letter of comfort required to be backed by a board resolution?
Yes. All corporate authorization checks (including without limitation Section 185/186 of the Companies Act, 2013) need to be done.
What if the borrowers/guarantors despite direction, fail to disclose the assets in court?
On failure to disclose the list of personal/other assets, the borrowers will attract criminal liability for contempt of DRT directions and the borrower shall be liable for 3 months imprisonment - S. 19(5) (3)
If guarantee is provided by an entity incorporated outside India (foreign entity), then is Sec. 185 and 186 applicable to them.
Sections 185 and 186 of the Companies Act, 2013 are not applicable to companies incorporated outside India. The compliances with respect to capacity for providing the guarantee will be determined along with a lawyer qualified in the jurisdiction in which the guarantee provider is incorporated.
Within how many days of the application under section 14 of SARFAESI Act, 2002 for taking assistance of police to take physical possession should the order be passed by Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (CMM) or District Magistrate (DM)?
Within 30 days and the same can be extended to 60 days if the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (CMM) or District Magistrate (DM) for the reasons to be recorded in writing for such extension.
Within how many days is the bank required to send the report to the central government?
30 (thirty) days.
Is it mandatory for the Infra Facility Manager (IFM) to execute the lease deed in the Bank format? Yes. It is mandatory for the Infra Facility Manager (IFM) to execute the Lease Deed in the Bank format. Any deviation would require Legal approval.
Whether agricultural property can be covered in Demand Notice Under Section 13(2) of the SARFAESI Act. 2002?
No, Agricultural property cannot be covered in the Demand Notice. However, the usage of the property to be considered while issuing such demand notice. For eg.: a property might be an agricultural property but factually it might be used for non-agricultural purposes in which cases, demand notice can be issued on such property.
What is the Right to Rectification under the General Data Protection Regulations?
Under Article 16 of the General Data Protection Regulations a data subject has the right to have their personal data rectified, if inaccurate or completed, if incomplete.
What documents need to be obtained from a Sole Proprietorship Firm in case of change in name? In case of a change in the name of the proprietorship firm, the GST registration certificate evidencing the change in name of the firm along with the up to date trade certificate issued in the name of the new entity may be obtained. Such requests to be referred to Product & Compliance team for inputs as well prior to processing of request.
In case of equitable mortgage, can a mortgage declaration be notarized on a date following the date of execution?
No, a mortgage declaration is required to be notarized on the date of execution itself (which should be the date of deposit of title deeds).
What is to be done if the Branch has received Bailable Warrant from Court against Branch Offical/Ex-Employee?
Branch to share the notice with the local Legal FPR for necessary guidance. In case of a bailable warrant against an ex-employee, the Branch has to draw upon HRMG in order to ascertain the last known contact details of the ex-employee and suitably intimate him to get in touch with the Branch so that necessary steps may be taken.
What is the validity of the certificate? 5 (five) years.
Is the Infra Facility Manager(IFM) required to seek permission from the Charity Commissioner in case if the Landlord is a private trust?
Yes. The IFM is required to seek permission form the concerned Charity Commissioner, if available, in case if the landlord is a private trust prior to execution of the lease.
What is the stamp duty applicable on the various transaction documents?
Stamp duty rates with respect to each state are updated on DMS at the following path Universe> Business Group> Corporate Centre> Corporate Legal Group > Home > Business Use > Reference Material. For clarifications please reach out to CLG.
Can the Karta of an HUF issue a POA to a co-parcener / third party?
Yes. The POA should contain the signature of the Karta and all coparceners and as per the format provided in Annexure A -15 of the e-Circular 9574.
Link to open E-Circular - <a href="http://myecirculars.icicibankltd.com:84/ibankecircmainapp/pages/app_index.aspx"> http://myecirculars.icicibankltd.com:84/ibankecircmainapp/pages/app_index.aspx </a> Or 
Use below navigation path
Universe>E-Circulars>E-Circular Home>Quick Search>Enter Circular Number
Can a minor act as the guardian of any Hindu minors' property? No.
What will be the obligation of a partner in case he changes his name or address?
In case of a registered partnership firm, if a partner alters his name or permanent address, the partner or any agent of the firm, must intimate the concerned Registrar of such alteration within a period of 90 days of such alteration.
In case of an alteration by a partner of an LLP, Every such partner shall inform the LLP of any change in his name or address within a period of fifteen days of such change. The LLP, in turn, would be under obligation to file such details with the relevant Registrar (as defined under the LLP Act) within thirty days of such change in Form 4 (as available on the MCA website).
What shall be the amount to be filled in SPDC (Security Post Dated Cheque)?
In case of SPDC, the value of security cheque should be equal to or less than the amount outstanding as per loan recall notice  (LRN).
What is the timeline for completion of Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP) under Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC)?
Under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP) should be completed within a period of 180 days from the date of admission of the application to initiate such process. The duration of such process may be extended by the 
Adjudicating Authority for a period not exceeding 90 days and such extension shall not be granted more than once.
Whether an NDU/Management Undertaking/Shortfall Undertaking is mandatory for every facility? No. NDU/Management Undertaking/Shortfall Undertaking to be taken on record only if stipulated by Risk Team or as stipulated in sanctioned terms. Please refer to the WBG Deviation Matrix as available on DMS for additional clarity.
What is Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958 (erstwhile known as Bombay Stamp Act, 1958)?
The Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958 (Act) came into force on 11th June, 1958 and is applicable in the 
State of Maharashtra. The title was changed from Bombay Stamp Act to Maharashtra Stamp Act in 
2012. This Act is intended to levy stamp duty on certain types of documents executed in the State of Maharashtra or brought from outside in the State of Maharashtra. The various instruments/documents are broadly covered under different 63 articles listed in Schedule-I appended to the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958. The rates at which stamp duty is levied on these documents are mentioned in Schedule I.
Can a Company Secretary affix rubber stamp on last page in case Board Resolution extends to more than one page?
Yes, it is sufficient if the rubber stamp is affixed on only last page, so long as the other page is also signed by the Company Secretary.
What are the precautions that are required to be taken by the Branch for Settlement of deceased claims in respect of Missing Persons?
The settlement of claims in respect of missing persons is governed by the provisions of Indian Evidence Act. Branch to note that the presumption of death can be raised only after a lapse of seven years from the date of his/her reported missing. As such, nominee/legal heirs have to raise and express presumption of death before a competent court. Branches may further refer to e-circular no. 9577 and follow the process laid down therein for resolution of such claims.
Can a guardian be appointed or declared by court for a Hindu/Christian minor?
Yes, a guardian can be appointed or declared by Court for a Hindu/Christian minor.
What happens when a sole surviving coparcener in a HUF is a minor?
In the event, the adult coparcener has died and the sole coparcener is a minor, the mother of the minor coparcener could act as the legal guardian of the minor and handle the affairs of the HUF, on behalf of the minor, in her capacity as legal guardian.
Is modification of charge required to be registered under the Companies Act, 2013 if there is change in ranking of security? For instance, elevation from second ranking to first ranking charge? Yes.
Can an application u/s 7, 9 or 10 of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) after being admitted in the NCLT be withdrawn?
The Adjudicating Authority may allow the withdrawal of application admitted under section 7, 9 or 10 of IBC, on an application made by the applicant with the approval of ninety per cent voting shares of the committee of creditors, before issue of invitation of expression of interest under Regulation 36A of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Insolvency Resolution Process for Corporate Persons) Regulation, 2016.
When an equitable mortgage is created by another bank, acting as our agent, and such bank does not obtain an MD but only shares the MOE for consideration stating that no MD has been recorded? A declaration has to be executed for creation of mortgage by deposit of title deeds. In case a declaration has not been executed, a specific confirmation should be obtained from the mortgagor confirming that the deposit of title deeds were done with the intention to create mortgage over the property along with the details of the facility for which the security is created.
What is the procedure when the common seal is not affixed in accordance with the board resolution?
The common seal of the company should be affixed in accordance with the articles of association of a company, read along with the board resolution. In the event there is discrepancy between the articles of association and board resolution, then the provisions of the articles of association should prevail. In such situation, a clarification on or rectification of the board resolution should be obtained from the company.
What documents need to be obtained from a borrower/ customer who is an individual in case of change in name of such borrower/ customer?
An affidavit affirmed before a notary public for change in name may be obtained from the customer/ borrower along with copy of a publication declaring such change in name in an English newspaper and a vernacular newspaper regarding the name change along with a gazette notification.
In case of equitable mortgage, are the mortgage documents required to be attached while filing Form CHG-1?
No. However, since the online system necessitates the attachment of an instrument creating charge, a Word document may be uploaded by the security provider specifying that no instrument was executed, however, a mortgage by way of deposit of title deeds was created in favour of the Bank on [insert date].
Whether the show-cause notice issued by EPFO should be complied with?
Yes, the branch/bank should comply with the show-cause notice issued by the EPFO and follow the directions provided in the EPFO notice.
What is Principle of Storage Limitation under GDPR?
According to this principle, once the purpose for which the data was collected is fulfilled and the organization no longer requires such data, the organization must cease to retain the personal data of data subject.
For opening account of any Trust or Society in Madhya Pradesh is a list of outgoing members required as one of the documents?
No, only the Form 7 under the Madhya Pradesh Society Registration Adhiniyam, 1973 has to be taken on record.
In case board resolution of the company extends to two pages, whether CS/authorized signatory can affix his rubber stamp on both the pages?
It is sufficient if the rubber stamp is affixed on only one page, so long as the other page is also signed by such person.
Do we require personal guarantee from the Partners of a Partnership Firm when funding is made to a Partnership Firm?
No. Partners of a partnership are personally liable under the Partnership Act and hence their personal guarantee is not required.
Can a married woman be a Karta in a Hindu Undivided Family?
A married woman can become a Karta in her fathers' HUF only and not in her husband family.
If a customer has multiple accounts with the bank along with the Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account (BSBDA), what happens to the other accounts?
If a customer has any other existing savings bank account in the same bank, the customer will be required to close all the other accounts within 30 days from the date of opening a Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account (BSBDA) account.
What if the Company is not made party/accused but a Director is made party/accused under section 138 NI Act since the notice is issued only to Director by Debt Manager?
In case of a cheque issued by a company, Debt Manager to ensure to serve the notice to the company at their registered office address and file proceedings against the company. In case if Debt Manager omits to accuse the company, he / she cannot proceed against the directors of the company.
In case of deceased claim settlement being made by the surviving partners, what procedure is to be followed?
In case the partnership firm is dissolved upon the death of any of the partners and the partnership is reconstituted, the balance in the account shall be settled in favour of the surviving partners and legal heirs of the deceased partner and in case the reconstituted firm wishes to bank with us, a new account shall have to be opened after obtaining necessary account opening formalities.
If, as per the partnership deed, the partnership firm is not dissolved upon the death of a partner, the branch should stop the operations of the partnership account upon coming to know of the demise of the partner till the branch, upon verification of the death certificate, certified copy of the partnership deed and a No-Objection Certificate from the deceased partners' legal heirs being obtained, is satisfied that there exists no dispute among the parties involved and that the partnership deed continues to be in operation. Do also refer to e-circular no. 9577 in this regard and follow the procedure as laid down therein.
Whether all pages of CAL are required to be initialled by the borrowers and security providers? Yes. All pages are required to be initialed by the borrower and security provider.
What is the court fee applicable for DRT filing?
As per Rule 7 of the Debts Recovery Tribunal (Procedure) Rules, 1993, the court fee payable where the amount of debt due is Rs.10,00,000 is Rs.12,000/- plus an additional Rs.1,000 for every Rs.1,00,000 of debt due or part thereof subject to a maximum of Rs.1,50,000.
Can a renewal Credit Arrangement Letter on adverse terms for Borrower be accepted if the guarantor fails to sign it?
In case of renewal with adverse terms, the CAL has to be accepted by all guarantors/third party security providers.  Please refer to the guidance note for renewal of limits available of the following path: DMS >  Business Use  > Wholesale Banking Group >  GCG/LCG/PFG/SSG  > Working Capital  > Finance Document
If the common seal is defaced by a signature or any other writing, can the same be accepted? As a practice, we do not accept defaced common seal.
Is it mandatory to register Memorandum of Entry in case the properties are situated at different jurisdictions?
Registration of Memorandum of Entry is a State specific matter. Consult Corporate Legal Group dealing officer
What is to be done if the Memorandum of Association of a One Person Company does not contain a nomination clause?
As per Companies Act, 2013, it is mandatory to have a nomination clause incorporated in the Memorandum of Association of a One Person Company.
Do we need to obtain Shareholders Resolution under 180(1)(c) from private limited companies?
No
Who can provide a timeline for moving security clearance memo? Corporate Legal Group and Business group
Can a tenant sub-let a premises without consent of the landlord?
Any sub-letting by a tenant may be carried out upon a written consent being obtained from the landlord, who has let-out the premises to the tenant unless agreed to otherwise in the lease deed. In case, there is no written consent from the landlord available, any sub-letting done by the tenant is illegal and in such an eventuality, the tenant may be liable for eviction from the premises.
Does the Bank have any course of action where the notice for cheque bounce has not been issued within 30 days from the date of the return memo for cheque bounce?
In case a notice has not been issued within 30 days of the date of the return memo, the cheque (provided that the same is still valid) may be presented again, and the timeline of 30 days for issue of the notice restarts from such date of the new return memo.
Is Debt Manager is required to file of Consent Terms in Civil Suit/DRT OA in case of settlement of loan account? Yes
What are the consequences of non-availability of documents concerning payment of electricity bills, water, sewerage etc.?
Documents concerning payment of electricity bills, water, sewerage etc. constitute proof of de facto possession and occupation of the premises by the Lessor. In the absence of such documents, necessary indemnities may be obtained from the Lessor to safeguard the interests of the Bank in case of a demand being raised by such authorities as regards non-payment of dues.
What are Derivatives?
A derivative is a financial instrument whose value changes in response to the change in a specified interest rate, security price, commodity price, foreign exchange rate, index of prices or rates, a credit rating or credit index, or similar variable which is known as the underlying.
What is MTM?
MTM stands Mark-to-Market. Mark to market is an accounting method that values an asset or the underlying at current market prices. It shows how much a company would receive if it sold the asset today.
Stamp Duty is paid on ad valorem basis. What does this imply?
It means that the stamp duty is paid on the basis of value of the underlying transaction or property, as the case may be.
Does CLG vet Annexure I and Annexure III as mandated under the relevant RBI Circulars?
No
Where can one use Digital Signature Certificates?
Digital Signature Certificates can be used for the following:
1.For sending and receiving digitally signed and encrypted emails.
2.For carrying out secure web-based transactions, or to identify other participants of web-based transactions. In e-Tendering, e-Procurement, MCA [for Registrar of Companies efiling], Income Tax [for e-filing income tax returns] Applications and also in many other applications.
3.For signing documents like MSWord, MS Excel and PDFs
Is CERSAI filing required for pledge? No.
What is to be done if a Court directs to remit funds of a Bank Customer in execution of decree or otherwise recoverable amount?
Branches to comply with the directions of the court by matching/confirming the details of the account as per the court order and as per the Bank's records simultaneously. In case of any amounts due towards the Bank, the matter may be referred to the local CLG FPR for views.
If Branch receives information about the death of the natural guardian of a minor having account under guardianship, who shall operate such accounts in case of such death?
Branch to obtain a request letter from the requestor mentioning the reason for change in name of guardian along with original death certificate of the guardian and the KYC documents of the requestor. Branch to note that after death of father and mother, a guardian may be appointed by Will or other instrument or appointed by the Court. Please act as per e-Circular no. 9574 and follow the process provided therein and the Retail Branch Manual with assistance of Branch Banking Team.
The following path can be followed for the process note:
Universe>Retail Branch Manual>Customer Service> Process of Deceased Claim Settlement at Retail Branches
Can Bank/Infra Facility Manager (IFM) take new premises on lease if such premises do not have any Completion Certificate (CC)/Occupational Certificate(OC) and permission for Commercial usage?
No. The premises can only be taken on lease if Bank/Infra Facility Manager (IFM) obtains Completion Certificate (CC)/Occupational Certificate(OC) and permission for Commercial usage. Any deviation requires Premises Committee(PC) approval.
If an SFA is executed, then should the tenure of the LAD be counted from the date of the SFA as SFA forms part of the agreement?
No, the timeline of the LAD should be counted from the date of the main facility agreement / date of the last LAD only.
Whether it is mandatory to issue Guarantee invocation Notice to guarantor for making them party to Civil Suit/ Original Application?
Yes, We must ensure that Loan Recall Notice and Guarantee invocation notice should be issued.
In a sole-proprietorship, can an account be operated by an individual other than the proprietor? Yes, provided such individual holds a Power of Attorney (POA) issued by the sole-proprietor authorizing him / her to operate the bank account of the sole-proprietorship.
What all documents to be handed over for filing Civil Suit/OA proceedings/Complaint Under Section 138 NI Act before Civil Court/ Debt Recovery Tribunal (DRT)/ Magistrate Court to Legal Manager by Debt Manager?
Please refer to Legal Checklist for handover of files. In case of any query, please coordinate with DSMG Process team.
If the mortgaged property  falls within more than one district then whether the mortgage deed is to be registered at all the districts?
No, if the mortgaged property falls within more than one district, the mortgage deed needs to be registered with any one Registrar and the registering Registrar shall forward a copy thereof and the endorsement and certificate (if any) thereon, together with copy of the map or plan (if any), to every registrar of the district where the mortgage property is situated.  The Registrar on receiving the same shall file in his Book No. 1 the copy of the document and the copy of the map or plan (if any), and shall forward a memorandum of the document to each of the Sub-Registrars subordinate to him within whose sub-district any part of such property is situate; and every Sub-Registrar receiving such memorandum shall file in his Book No. 1.
Is ISDA Master Agreement required for all types of Derivatives?
No. In case the client wishes to enter only into forward contracts for a period lesser than 11 (eleven) months, the client may execute the Forward Contract Agreement or Project Futurist documents available under Markets Group on DMS > Business Use  > Wholesale Banking Group >  Markets Group  > Derivatives
Who needs to do CERSAI filing?
CERSAI filing needs to be done by the Bank.
What is the validity of Stamps?
As per the provisions of Section 52-B of the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958, the stamps which are purchased and not used within six months shall be rendered invalid thereafter. The stamps purchased and not used for intended purpose are entitled for refund after deduction of certain charges, if lodged for refund within six months from the date of purchase and on fulfilling the conditions stipulated in Chapter V of the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958.
Can Bank file complaint under section 138 of Negotiable Instrument Act, if the cheque returned due to account is Account Blocked?
Case under section 138 of Negotiable Instrument Act where the reason for dishonor is Account Blocked should not be filed as the courts do not take the cognizance of the same as it does not imply that the cheque have dishonoured due to insufficiency of funds in the account of the borrower.
What is the stamp duty applicable on re-conveyance of mortgaged?
Stamp duty rates are updated on DMS and can be verified for each State. The path for the same is as follows. Universe> Business Group> Corporate Centre> Corporate Legal Group > Home > Business Use > Reference Material. For clarifications please reach out to CLG.
Whether section 185 and 186 of the Companies Act, 2013 get attracted in pledge of shares done by a company?
Yes, unless it falls under the specific exemptions contained therein.
What is to be done if the customer is willing to settle the account post filing of Original Application (OA) in Debt Recovery Tribunal (DRT)?
Consent Terms may be filed before Debt Recovery Tribunal (DRT) in case of staggered settlement.
In what all situations, a builder No Objection Certificate (NOC) is required to be obtained by Infra Facility Manager (IFM) prior to execution of lease?
In cases wherein the society has not been formed and all day to day affairs are taken care of by the Builder, a NOC from the builder is must and IFM should ensure to provide this.
What is cryptocurrency
A cryptocurrency is a digital or virtual currency that uses cryptography/encryption for security. Many cryptocurrencies are decentralized systems based on blockchain technology.
Can a partnership account be opened basis the last available partnership deed and in absence of earlier partnership deeds being submitted?
It is recommended that the entire chain of partnership deeds since inception is obtained. However, where that is not practical or such deeds may not be available, the account may be opened based on the current partnership deed provided a confirmatory letter from a Chartered Accountant is obtained along with a letter issued by all the partners confirming the said deed to be the last validly executed deed is obtained and the process laid down in this regard in e-Circular 15436 is followed.
What is CSA?
CSA stands for Credit Support Annex which forms part of the ISDA Master Agreement. It is a document securing a partys' obligations under the ISDA Master Agreement provided either by the party itself or a third party.
What is the actionable in case the Lessor has expired prior to determination of the lease? A lease arrangement survives the death of the Lessor unless contrary thereto has been agreed to between the parties. In any event, the legal heirs of the Lessor shall be liable to receive all monies payable under the lease arrangement. At the time of renewal of the lease arrangement, the legal heirs are required to execute a fresh lease deed. Proof of legal heirship such as probate/letter of administration/succession certificate etc. shall be required to be examined in order to ascertain the respective rights of the legal heirs.
What are the Documents required by the Bank to establish the authenticity of the requests received from Resolution Professionals (RP) under Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016(IBC)?
Branches to check for the following documents - A request Letter from Resolution 
Professional(RP)/ Interim Resolution Professional(IRP), Order from the National Company Law Tribunal, Registration Certificate of the Resolution Professional and Know Your Customer(KYC) Documents as may be required are received at their end.
What is the validity period of a stamp paper?
As per practise, stamp paper dated within 6 (Six) months from the of issuance of the Stamp Paper is acceptable. However for Maharashtra and Gujarat a stamp paper purchased and not used for a period of 6 months  from the date of issuance shall be invalid.
Can a minor be a nominee in a bank account?
Yes, Section 45ZA of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 permits a minor to be a nominee in a bank account.
What is the difference between a data processor and a data controller under GDPR?
A controller is an organization that determines the purposes, conditions and means of the processing of personal data, while the processor is an organization which processes personal data on behalf of the controller.
Is the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010 (FCRA) applicable to NRIs? Yes.
What is Right to Access under the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR)?
The right of access, captured in Article 15 of the GDPR gives data subjects the right to obtain a copy of their personal data held by the controller his or her data. In addition to the right to obtain a copy of the data, the data subject shall also have the right to the following information with respect to the personal data
(i) the purposes of the processing
(ii) the categories of personal data concerned
(iii) the recipients or categories of recipient to whom the personal data have been or will be disclosed, in particular recipients in third countries or international organisations
(iv) where possible, the envisaged period for which the personal data will be stored, or, if not possible, the criteria used to determine that period
(v) the existence of the right to request from the controller rectification or erasure of personal data or restriction of processing of personal data concerning the data subject or to object to such processing
(vi) the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority
(vii) where the personal data are not collected from the data subject, any available information as to their source
(viii) the existence of automated decision-making, including profiling, referred to in Article 22(1) and (4) and, at least in those cases, meaningful information about the logic involved, as well as the significance and the envisaged consequences of such processing for the data subject.
Who, under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act, 2010, is prohibited from receiving foreign contribution (as defined under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act, 2010)?
Under the Act, following persons are prohibited from accepting and receiving foreign contribution:
(a) a candidate for election;
(b) any correspondent, columnist, cartoonist, editor, owner, printer or publisher of a registered newspaper.
(c) public servant, Judge, Government servant or employee of any corporation or any other body controlled or owned by the Government; (d) member of any legislature.
(e) political party or office bearer.
(f) organization of a political nature as may be specified by the Central Government under the Act.(g) association or company engaged in the production or broadcast of audio news or audio visual news or current affairs programs through any electronic mode, or any other electronic form as defined in clause (r) of sub-section (i) of Section 2 of the Information Technology Act,2000 or any other mode of mass communication.
(h) correspondent or columnist, cartoonist, editor, owner of the association or company referred to in point (g) and;
(i) individuals or associations who have been prohibited from receiving foreign contribution.
Who is a presiding officer and recovery officer at the Debts Recovery Tribunal (DRT)?
A presiding officer is the adjudicating officer of the DRT who decides applications from banks and financial institutions for recovery of debts due. 
Recovery officer is one of the officers of DRT, who on receipt of a recovery certificate from the presiding officer proceeds to recover the amounts mentioned in the recovery certificate.
Can the same individual(s) be empowered by both the Borrower and Corporate Guarantor/third party security provider in connection with the credit facilities being availed from the Bank? Same individual(s) should not negotiate and settle Documents on behalf of Borrower Company and Guarantor Company as it involves Conflict of Interest in performing the roles.
However, where both Borrower Company and Guarantor Company could not avoid authorising same individual(s), then if the Boards of Borrower Company and Guarantor Company adopted the respective documents and authorise the individual(s) only to sign / execute and deliver the respective documents (not authorising negotiation or amending the documents), then such individual(s) can execute and deliver the documents as authorised.
Whether penalty can be imposed on the Bank by EPFO under the Act?
Yes, in case of non-compliance by the Bank of the order passed by the EPFO, the authorities can impose penalty on the Bank.
Is it permitted under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010 (FCRA) to invest the foreign contribution received in speculative business?
Any foreign contribution or any income arising out of it shall not be used for speculative business What are the rights available to an individual under the General Data Protection Regulations 
(GDPR)?
There are eight fundamental rights of individuals under GDPR namely, laid down in Chapter 3 of the General Data Protection Regulations: the right to be informed, the right to access, the right of rectification, the right to erasure, the right to restrict processing, the right to data portability, the right to object and the right of automated decision making and profiling.
How is Stamp Duty payable?
Stamp Duty can be inter-alia paid by way of affixing: 
I. Impressed stamps - These stamps include (i) labels affixed, impressed and cancelled by the appropriate stamp authority and (ii) stamps embossed or engraved on stamped paper. These stamps are impressed / franked by stamp authorities / banks as authorized by stamp authorities on the Bank documents before execution thereof. Every instrument written upon paper stamped with an impressed stamp has to be written in such a manner that the stamp may appear on the face of the instrument and cannot be used for or applied to any other instrument.
II. Adhesive stamps - Adhesive stamps are stamps which are pasted on the documents. Certain documents like demand promissory notes, receipts, etc. are stamped with adhesive revenue stamps. Postage stamps cannot be used on documents. Adhesive revenue stamps when used, must be duly cancelled by the executant by signing across them. Simply drawing lines across an adhesive revenue stamp cannot be considered as proper cancellation thereof and the document will be considered as unstamped and will not be admissible in evidence. 
III. Non-judicial stamp paper - These are printed on paper by the Government. Such papers are available in different denominations. The denomination of the stamp paper depends on the nature of the document and also on the amount secured. The rates of stamp duty on documents falling under State Stamp Acts vary from State to State.
When is form no. CHG-4 filed under the Companies Act, 2013?
Form no. CHG-4 is filed in relation to satisfaction with respect to any charge registered with the ROC on account of the debt for which the charge was given has been paid or satisfied in full or the fact that the entire property has been released from the charge or has ceased to form part of the company property.
What is the difference between a Limited Liability Partnership and a General Partnership? A Limited Liability Partnership is a legal entity separate from its partners and therefore, offers limited liability to its partners whereby any debts and obligations of the LLP will be borne by the assets of the LLP. In the case of a conventional partnership, the partners are jointly and severally liable for each debt and obligation of the partnership firm.
If a Trust Deed is not witnessed but has been registered before competent authorities, can the same be accepted for the purpose of account opening?
Yes. Please refer to the process laid down in e-Circular 13799 in this regard.
What is to be done if Insolvency Resolution Professional (IRP) / Resolution Professional (RP) has sent a letter to Bank, informing the Bank that he has been appointed by National Company Law Tribunal ("NCLT") and authorized to operate the account of Company and has requested the Bank to furnish account related information?
Upon receipt of any such notice, the Branch must raise an SR upon the Central Operations Team immediately to ascertain the details of the bank accounts and marking of freeze thereon. The detailed process note attached hereto must be adhered to strictly.
What is the timeline for obtaining a pari-passu /security sharing letter in SMEAG cases?
Pari-passu /security sharing letters are to be obtaining within a maximum of 45 days (i.e. an original timeline of 30 days extendable to a further 15 days with joint approval of DZM- Business, Zonal Head- Risk and Senior Group Head- CLG) from creation of security.
Can the Bank exercise its conversion rights in the absence of a special shareholders resolution? No. An upfront resolution under Section 62(3) passed by the shareholders of the borrower is required to enable the Bank to exercise its right convert debt into equity.
Can a common guarantee deed be executed by the same guarantors for multiple facilities where there are multiple facilities proposed to be guaranteed by the same persons?
Separate deeds of guarantee should be executed with respect to each facility proposed to be guaranteed.
Can an NRO/NRE account be opened through a power of attorney holder/ mandate holder? No. account opening request and all necessary forms and filings have to be done by the account holder. A POA/mandate holder may only be permitted to operate the account not open an account.
What happens to the account of a resident account holder on his leaving India (other than Nepal or Bhutan)?
When a person resident in India leaves India for a country (other than Nepal or Bhutan) for taking up employment or for carrying on business or vocation outside India of for any other purposes indicating his intention to stay outside India for an uncertain period, his existing account should be designated as an NRO account.
Whether title search reports prepared by other banks in a multiple banking arrangement/consortium banking can be accepted even if there is no deviation in the sanction for all SMEAG cases? Yes; provided the TSR is not older than 3 years.
What action should be taken by the Branch when it receives a request for transactional data from District collectors/Electoral officers at the time of Elections?
The District Collectors / Electoral officers are empowered under the Election Commission of India Act to issue notifications asking for details of certain transactions and therefore, the Branch must ensure compliance of the instructions of the authorities.
What are the different principles relating to processing of personal data under the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR)?
Article 5 of the General Data Protection Regulations provides different principles for processing personal data which are the Principle of Lawfulness, Fairness and Transparency, the Principle of Purpose Limitation, the Principle of Accuracy, the Principle of Storage Limitation, the Principle of Data Minimization and the Principle of Confidentiality and Integrity.
What is the process to be followed by Infra Facility Manager in case of Property Hand-over? The Infra Facility Manager (IFM) is required to follow the below process in case Property Hand Over: 
a. Notice of termination/vacation  of premises to be given to the Lessor, b. To carry out any restoration as per the agreed terms. c. To obtain refund of Security deposit from the Lessor and d. To obtain Handed over/taken over letter from the  Lessor and further that nothing is due and payable by the Bank to the lessor.
What is the right to erasure under the General Data Protection Regulations?
Also known as the right to be forgotten and contained in Article 17 of the GDPR, it provides data subjects with right to request for erasure of their personal data in the following circumstances
(i) the personal data are no longer necessary in relation to the purposes for which they were collected or otherwise processed
(ii) the data subject withdraws consent on which the processing is based according to point (a) of 
Article 6(1), or point (a) of Article 9(2), and where there is no other legal ground for the processing (iii) the data subject objects to the processing pursuant to Article 21(1) and there are no overriding legitimate grounds for the processing, or the data subject objects to the processing pursuant to Article 21(2)
(iv) the personal data have been unlawfully processed
(v) the personal data have to be erased for compliance with a legal obligation in Union or Member State law to which the controller is subject
(vi) the personal data have been collected in relation to the offer of information society services referred to in Article 8(1).
Whether the Accused Customer needs to deposit some amount in Appellate court in order to entertain his appeal against conviction in S. 138 Negotiable Instruments Act?
Yes as per S. 148 Negotiable Instruments Act, in an appeal by the drawer against conviction under S. 138 NI Act Complaint, the Appellant Court may order the appellant to deposit such sum which shall be minimum of twenty percent of the fine or compensation awarded by the trial court. Provided that the amount payable under this sub-section shall be in addition to any interim compensation paid by the appellant under S. 143A. The said amount needs to be paid within sixty days from the date of the order or within such further period not exceeding 30 days as may be directed by the court on sufficient cause being shown by the Appellant.
Whether the order of Lok Adalat is binding on parties i.e. Customer and Bank? Yes, an order passed by the Lok Adalat is binding on parties.
What is Pledge Request Form?
Pledge Request Form is the standard format prescribed by Central Depository Services Limited (CDSL) for creation of pledge.
Whether a guarantee provided by a company required to be registered as charge under the Companies Act, 2013?
No
Can the contents of e-Locker be handed over to the Legal heirs at the time of Deceased Claim Settlement in case the customer has not nominated anyone for the e-locker document?
Yes, handover may be made to the legal heirs, provided due diligence is conducted by the Bank as per the process of deceased claim settlement provided in the Retail Branch Manual should be followed. The following path can be followed for the same:
Universe>Retail Branch Manual>Customer Service> Process of Deceased Claim Settlement at Retail Branches
Who is authorized to sign the application and affidavit, in proceedings u/s 14 of SARFAESI Act. Authorized Officer of the Bank, in the grade of Chief Manager and above, needs to sign the Application and supporting affidavit, in proceedings u/s 14 of the SARFAESI Act.
Whether the interim compensation to be received Under Section 138 Negotiable Instruments Act complaint can be treated as fine?
Yes, as per Sec. 143A of NI (Amendment) Act, the interim compensation payable under this section may be recovered as if it were a fine under S. 421 of Cr.PC.
If dematerialized shares are pledged, can unilateral appropriation of shares by lenders in the case of pledge be done?
Yes, provided a reasonable notice is provided to the pledger prior to invocation of such pledge and subsequent appropriation.
What is to be done for activation of dormant/inactive NRI Accounts?
For activation of inactive/ dormant accounts pertaining to NRI accounts, the branch needs to follow the process as documented under e-circular no. 11915.
Is undertaking to create permanent security required in case there is no third party security provider?
No separate undertaking is required to be obtained from the Borrower, if the same is already covered under the underlying facility agreement.
When Section 14 Application under SARFAESI Act, 2002 be filed before District Magistrate(DM)/ Chief Metropolitan Magistrate(CMM)?
When the borrower fails to comply with demand notice and refuses to handover the peaceful voluntary possession of secured asset, then in such cases Application u/s 14 of the SARFAESI Act is to be filed before CMM/DM in whose jurisdiction secured asset situates, for assistance in taking possession of secured asset.
What is Principle of Lawfulness, Fairness and Transparency under GDPR?
According to this principle, an organization should collect and process data on lawful grounds only and inform the individuals about the type and the purpose for collecting such data.
What is the internal threshold/policy trigger for filing DRT/Civil/Sec 138 cases?
For Civil Suit - Claim value greater than INR 1 lac and upto INR 20 lacs; 
For DRT - Claim value greater than INR 20  lacs; 
For Sec 138 - Aggregate cheque value of INR 75,000/- & loan amount outstanding greater than INR 1 lac
For further details, refer to the COED note on Triggers for Legal Action- Retail Asset Business.
What is maximum permissible percentage of share capital that may be pledged in favour of/for the benefit of a single bank?
Under section 19(2) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, a bank shall not hold shares in any company, whether as pledgee, mortgagee or absolute owner, of an amount exceeding thirty per cent (30%) of the paid-up share capital of that company.
Who can be the authorised officer of a secured creditor for the purpose of proceedings under 
SARFAESI?
Authorised officer means an officer not less than the grade of a chief manager of the bank or as specified by the Board of Directors.
What is Dasti service?
Service by Dasti means service by hand.
What type of accounts can a NRI or PIO open?
NRI can open Savings Account, Current Account, Recurring Account, Fixed Deposit under NonResident (External) Rupee Account Scheme. Do also refer to the Branch banking helpdesk for further assistance.
To whom shall Loan Recall Notice(LRN) be issued by Debt Manager if borrower is company/trust/partnership firm/proprietorship concern?
Loan Recall Notice to be issued to company/trust/partnership firm/proprietorship concern shall be through its Director/Partner/Proprietor by name.  Format and other requisites are available with DSMG Process team/DSMG LPO Team.
Can a coparcener of an HUF operate an HUF account?
Yes, provided a POA is provided to such a coparcener and a No Objection is obtained from the Karta and all coparceners for the same. The process laid down in e-Circular 15436 shall be required to be followed in this regard.
What is to be done if a deceased account holder was an ICICI Prudential Life Insurance policy holder?
Do refer to e-circular no. 9577 and follow the detailed process as laid down therein for resolution of the instant query.
Whether Debt Manager can issue notices in case of cheques issued by third party on behalf of the borrowers get dishonoured?
No
Can the pledgor cancel the pledge order after confirmation of creation of pledge by the pledgee? No. It requires confirmation from the pledgee prior to cancellation
How to recover the shortfall in outstanding dues after sale of assets under SARFAESI Act by Debt Manager?
Where the dues of the secured creditor are not fully satisfied with the sale proceeds of the secured assets, the secured creditor may file an application in the form and manner as may be prescribed to the DRT having jurisdiction or a competent court, as the case may be, for recovery of the balance amount from the borrower.
What is the status of creation of charge on an escrow account as per RBI (Master Direction on Issuance and Operation of Prepaid Payment Instruments) dated October 11, 2017 (Updated as on December 29, 2017)?
The process in relation to escrow accounts for prepaid payment instrument (PPI) related transactions has been revised vide RBI Master Direction on Issuance and Operation of Prepaid Payment Instruments dated October 11, 2017 (as amended). As per the revised process, creation of charge over the PPI related escrow accounts shall not be required from the date of these directions.
To whom shall Debt Manager propose to issue SARFAESI Demand Notice to be if borrower is company/trust/partnership firm/proprietorship concern?
The Demand Notice shall be issued to Director (for Company), Partners' (for partnership firm), Trustee/Manager/Managing Trustee (For trust) and propreitor and  (for propreitorship concern as well as the Proprietor). Notices shall also be issued to all the co-borrowers/guarantors/mortgagers in such cases.   Format and other requisites are available with DSMG Compliance Team.
Whether any Notice is issued by Court before Possession under SARFAESI Act,2002?
The Chief Metropolitan Magistrate(CMM)/ Debt Manager(DM) directs the court officer / Tahsildar to to take the inventory of the assets of the property and take the physical possession of the premises and handover the same to the authorized officer of the bank within a specified period. Thereafter purely on a humanitarian ground (though not provided by the Act) the executing authority i.e., the Registrar / Tahsildar issues 15 days notice to borrower to pay the entire outstanding dues or surrender the property to bank.
Are Board Resolutions signed and stamped only on the last page acceptable?
While it is suggested that a certified copy of a board resolution be signed on every page in order to avoid disputes being raised in respect to the contents thereof, in the event, the Client submits a board resolution signed and stamped by the authorized signatories of the customer/borrower on the last page, the same is acceptable.
In case of a change of name of a sole proprietorship maintaining a current account with the Bank, what process shall be required to be followed?
In case a sole-proprietorship firm submits a request to change its name, then the account has to be closed and fresh account is to be opened provided the documents specified in e-Circular 9574 has been submitted to the Bank. 
<a href="http://myecirculars.icicibankltd.com:84/ibankecircmainapp">Link to open E-Circular</a> Or 
Use below navigation path
Universe>E-Circulars>E-Circular Home>Quick Search>Enter Circular Number
Can confirmation of pledge be evidenced by generating Pledge Master Report?
Yes, confirmation of pledge could be evidenced from the 'status' section in the Pledge Master Report.
In a case where the list of first members of a Trust/Association/Society/Club is not mentioned in the constitutional document, then what process is to be followed?
In such cases, either the Change Report filed with the Registrar/competent authority or Annexure XI as provided in e-Circular 13799 along with the Resolution appointing new office bearers should be collected. The Resolution should specify the manner of change of the office bearers and give reference to the removal of the old office bearers as well.
What action should be taken when a branch receives a notice from the Income tax authorities to freeze any sums, bullion, jewellery, lockers or other valuable article or thing due to the account holder?
Do refer to e-circular no. 9125 and follow the detailed process therein to ensure compliance with such directions from IT Authorities. Do also raise an SR on the taxation team in case of any further assistance/clarifications being required.
Does Debt Manager need to mention NPA date in the Demand Notice Under Section 13(2) of SARFAESI Act?
Yes.  However, reason for NPA is not required to be mentioned.
Whether Original Application(OA) proceedings before DRT can be filed for ICICI Home Finance Company (HFC) Cases?
No. For any amount, civil recovery suit in that respect to be filed before the Civil Court.
Can Debt Manager process lien marking on Company Account (Current) against the outstanding dues of any individual borrower who is the director in the said company?
No
What is considered to be foreign contribution under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act, 2010 (FCRA)?
The term foreign contribution, under clause 2 (h) of the aforementioned act, means the donation, delivery or transfer made by any foreign source,
(i) of any article, not being an article given to a person as a gift for his personal use, if the market value, in India, of such article, on the date of such gift, is not more than such sum as may be specified from time to time, by the Central Government by the rules made by it in this behalf
(ii) of any currency, whether Indian or foreign
(iii) of any security as defined in clause (h) of section 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act,1956(42 of 1956) and includes any foreign security as defined in clause (o) of section 2 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999(42 of 1999).
It should be noted that any amount received, by any person from any foreign source in India, by way of fee (including fees charged by an educational institution in India from foreign student) or towards cost in lieu of goods or services rendered by such person in the ordinary course of his business, trade or commerce whether within India or outside India or any contribution received from an agent of a foreign source towards such fee or cost shall be excluded from the definition of foreign contribution within the meaning of this clause.
Is the submission of resolutions under 62(3) of the Companies Act mandatory and when are these required to be submitted?
Resolutions under S. 62(3) are only required when the bank has the right to convert debt into equity and such resolutions is required to be obtained as a condition precedent to the disbursement. This is no longer a standard provision, and is only included in cases where the business head specifically approves the inclusion of such a clause. Resolutions shall be obtained as required depending on the language of the clause.
Is there a requirement for registration of a 'Will'?
No, registration of a Will is not mandatory
What is to be done in case if any debtor of the borrower makes the payment to the secured creditor upon the later's notice demanding payment under SARFAESI Act, 2002?
Any payment made by any person/debtor of the borrower to the secured creditor, the secured creditor shall give such person a valide discharge as if he has made payment to the borrower.
Is the claimant for a deceased account holder required to submit the claim at the base branch of the deceased account holder?
The claimant may submit the request for decease claim settlement at any branch of the Bank and the same may be accepted and processed at non-base branches as well.
When did General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) come into effect?
The General Data Protection Regulations were approved and adopted by the European Union Parliament in April 2016 and came into force on the 25th of May 2018.
What is the limitation for preferring Appeal against the order of Recovery Officer in Recovery Proceedings before Debt Recovery Tribunal (DRT)?
Limitation period for filing an appeal by person aggrieved from order of Recovery Officer is 30 days from the date of receipt of impugned order.
Who can issue a SARFAESI Notice? Can a Debt Manager issue SARFAESI notice?
Demand Notice can be signed by designated Authorized Officer of Bank/Secured Creditor in the grade of Chief Manager and above. No, any Debt Manager cannot sign Demand Notice, unless he is designated as Authorized Officer and is above the grade of Chief Manager, as per the Rules.
Are home buyers considered as financial creditors or operational creditors under Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC)?
As per the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Act, 2018, home buyers are treated as financial creditors and the debt owed to them by the corporate debtor is considered as a financial debt.
What can be done if the stamp paper is purchased one day after execution of the document in Gujarat or Maharashtra?
This can be accepted, subject to the specific approval of CLG.
When did GDPR come into effect?
The GDPR which was approved and ad opted by the European Union Parliament in April 2016 came into force on 25th May 2018.
Whether DRT Act has an overriding effect?
Yes. As per S. 34 of the RDDBFI Act, the provisions of the RDDBFI Act shall have overriding effect over any other law for the time being in force in case of any inconsistency found. This means, the provisions of this Act shall prevail over the provisions of any other law in force.
Is the Infra Facility Manager (IFM) required to vet the amendatory deed in case if there is any amendment to the commercial terms in the lease i.e., changes in the existing rent payable? Yes. Infra Facility Manager (IFM) is required to vet the amendment deed in case if there is any amendment to the commercial terms in the lease i.e., changes in the existing rent payable.
Can I sell the property under SARFAESI Act, basis symbolic possession?
Yes, on an exception and on case to case basis. Provided Authorised Officer is duty bound to the handover the physical possession of property to the auction purchaser.
Can a Board Resolution for derivatives authorize same persons as Authorized Users and Authorized Persons?
No. Authorized Users must be distinct from Authorized Persons. Authorized Users are persons who are authorized to undertake derivative transactions and Authorized Persons are persons who are authorized to receive reports from the bank detailing the transactions undertaken by the company.
What all details to be mentioned in Demand Notice under section 13(2) of SARFAESI Act, 2002? 
How Debt Manager can issue  Demand Notice?
NPA date, Amount Outstanding and Property intended to be enforced on failure to pay on the expiry of 60 days of the demand notice. In case, if Debt Manager require to send it then Format and other requisites are available with DSMG Process team/DSMG SARFAESI Team.
Can One Person Company (OPC) be converted into a private limited company? Yes, a OPC can be converted to a private limited company.
Can NRI be a partner in Limited Liability Partnership (LLP)?
Yes. NRI can be a partner in a LLP subject to compliance with applicable Foreign Exchange and Foreign Direct Investment Laws/ Rules/ Regulations/ Guidelines.
Does an indenture of mortgage have to be registered?
Yes, it has to be compulsorily registered, as per the Registration Act, 1908.
Are notices received from Central and State Vigilance Commission required to be complied with?
Please do share the notice with your local CLG FPR for assistance in resolution.
How can the risk of non-availability of Building Plan or Completion Certificate or Occupation Certificate be mitigated?
In the absence of the Building Plan or Completion Certificate or Occupancy Certificate, it is advisable to obtain an undertaking-cum-indemnity from the Lessor.
What is the right to object to automated decision making under the General Data Protection Regulations?
The General Data Protection Regulations give data subjects the right not to be subject to a decision based solely on automated processing, that is, a decision made solely by automated means without any human involvement and which includes profiling.
Do modifications / alteration of terms in a Deed of Partnership, duly registered with the Registrar of Assurance, require that the modified/altered terms be registered with the concerned Registrar?
Yes. In cases where the deed of partnership has been registered with the Registrar of Assurances or Sub-Registrar, any amendment thereto shall also be required to be registered to avoid discrepancies between the actual situation viz-a-viz the records of the concerned Sub-Registrar.
What action should be taken if the Branch receives a notice from the Department of Consumer Affairs & Fair Business Practices?
Upon receipt of summons, the said summons along with all papers received at the Branch must be forthwith shared with the local Legal team to ensure that suitable representation is made before the Department of Consumer Affairs.
Who may become a partner in Limited Liability Partnership (LLP)? An individual or body corporate may become a partner in an LLP.
Can DRT action and SARFAESI action be initiated parellely by Debt Manager? Yes. There is no bar in initiation of DRT and SARFAESI Action in parallel.
What is to be done if the Branch receives a notice from the Banking Ombudsman?
The Branch should forward the notice to the regional nodal officer of the Bank forthwith upon receipt so that a suitable response may be filed before the Banking Ombudsman.
Is letter of authority by Hindu Undivided Family (HUF) required to be signed on a letterhead? No, a letter of authority need not necessarily be signed on the letterhead of a HUF though it is recommended such document be obtained on the letterhead in case of the HUF having an official letterhead.
Where can we access information about a LLP?
Information regarding any LLP can be accessed on the website of ministry of corporate affairs (www.mca21.com) upon payment of necessary fees.
Can hand written dates/ facts be accepted in executed documents?
No, unless each such hand written inclusion is counter signed by the authorized signatories to the documents at the spot of such inclusion.
What is the implication on stamp duty where the documents are documents executed in a different state is taken to Maharashtra?
When the original document is required to be taken out of the State where it was executed, to the State of Maharashtra for the purpose of acting on it, the difference in stamp duty, if any, is required to be paid within 3 months from the date of receipt thereof in Maharashtra.
Can a part of the Hindu minors' immovable property be leased by the natural guardian for a term exceeding 5 (five) years?
No, immoveable property in the name of a hindu minor cannot be leased by the natural guardian for a term exceeding 5 years without the prior permission of the court.
What are the guidelines to ensure regular representation of the bank by Authorized Representative/ Power of Attorney (PoA) holder before the court on each date of hearing of the complaints filed under NI Act?
Please refer DMSG/OG/85/2014. Please coordinate with DSMG process team.
Whether LLP Agreement can be modified/ amended?
Yes, LLP Agreement can be modified by executing an amendment agreement between the partners.
What is Re-materialization of shares?
Re-materialization of shares is the process by which the investor can convert the dematerialized shares (i.e. in electronic form) into physical certificates.
Who can be a designated partner?
As per the provisions of LLP Act, 2008 individuals can be a designated partner, however at least one of the designated partners should be a resident of India. An individual and a resident of India, in accordance with the provisions of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008, can be a designated partner.
Whether the Bank as secured creditor under SARFAESI Act 2002 has the right to lodge a Caveat? Yes, Where an application or an appeal is expected to be made or has been made under the provisions of SARFAESI Act, the secured creditor or any person claiming a right to appear before the Tribunal or the Court of District Judge or the Appellate Tribunal or the High Court, as the case may be, on the hearing of such application or appeal, may lodge a caveat in respect thereof. Where such a caveat has been lodged, the secured creditor/by any person by whom the caveat has been lodged shall serve notice of the caveat by registered post, acknowledgment due on the person by whom the application has been or is expected to be made. Similarly, post filing of such caveat, the DRT/DRAT/District Court/High Court shall serve a notice of application or appeal filed by the Applicant or the Appellant on the caveator.
Whether amendment of claim in OA or RC to be done on sale of properties. What should Debt Manager do?
Yes, Debt Manager to supply all details to Legal Manager for amending the claim.
What should Debt Manager do if he find out any SARFAESI proceedings initiated by other bank on property mortgaged to ICICI Bank/ HFC?
In such cases where it is revealed that another bank has taken steps under SARFAESI in respect of the property which is mortgaged to ICICI bank/HFC, then Bank can very well approach the DRT and seek injunction / stay on such steps taken by another bank to safeguard our interest. Debt Manager to contact Legal Manager for further details.
Is submission of PAN card mandatory for carrying out a transaction exceeding Rs. 50,000? Yes. Please be guided by the process laid down in e-Circular 15436 in this regard.
Is it mandatory to affix the common seal?
The requirement of a company to have a common seal has been omitted pursuant to the Companies 
Amendment Act, 2015 which came into force on May 29, 2015. Therefore, if the constitutional documents of a company (Articles of Association, in particular) is incorporated after May 29, 2015 do not contain a common seal clause, common seal need not be affixed on the documents. 
If there is a mandatory requirement of affixing the common seal in the Articles of 
Associations/relevant corporate authorisation of the company, then the common seal should be affixed to the relevant documents. The common seal has to be affixed as authorized under the Board Resolution of the company. If common seal is not compulsorily required as per the articles of association of the company and/or board resolution, then affixing common seal for due execution shall not be mandatory.
Please note that certain documents such a power of attorney, share certificates, etc., as identified under the Companies Act, 2013, are required to be compulsorily affixed with the common seal of the company and no waiver can be obtained for the same.
Under the FCRA, is the transfer, delivery or donation of Security also foreign contribution? Yes. The donation, delivery or transfer of any Security also considered as foreign contribution. For a detailed understanding on the scope of Security please contact CLG.
Can an inactive OR dormant account be activated?
Yes, process laid down in e-Circular 9574 is to be followed.
<a href="http://myecirculars.icicibankltd.com:84/ibankecircmainapp">Link to open E-Circular</a> Or 
Use below navigation path
Universe>E-Circulars>E-Circular Home>Quick Search>Enter Circular Number
Can Chief Metropolitan Magistrate(CMM) or District Magistrate(DM) ask for borrower's appearance or take replies/ objections from borrower in proceedings under section 13(4) of SARFAESI Act, 2002?
In this context, reference must be made to a case law to comprehend the position of law prior to the amendment in 2016. In the case of Hari Trading Corporation v Bank of Baroda, the Bombay High Court held that Section 14 merely envisages that the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate(CMM) or District Magistrate(DM), as the case may be, has the power to pass an order for the purpose of assisting the secured creditor. However, such assistance does not involve adjudication of rights and liabilities of the parties by the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate(CMM) or District Magistrate(DM). Further, the right of the secured creditor to take over the possession of the secured asset of the borrower is provided in 13(4) and not in Section 14. Therefore, there is no requirement of providing right to hearing to the borrower by the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate(CMM) or District 
Magistrate(DM) and Section 14. Thus, in such circumstances, the remedy of the borrower is to file an appeal against the decision of the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate(CMM) or District 
Magistrate(DM) under Section 17. However, by virtue of the Amendment Act, 2016 such position has undergone a substantial change.
Should the mortgage documents be mandatorily executed at the place of business/ registered office/ branch office of the Bank/ Trustee (if any)? Yes if equitable mortgage is being done.
What do you mean by modification of charge registered under the Companies Act, 2013?
Any change in the terms or conditions or the extent or operation of security shall be considered as modification of charge.
In case of renewal of bilateral working capital facilities, when is a supplemental facility agreement or an SFA required to be executed?
A supplemental facility agreement is required to be executed in case where there is any modification required to be made to the existing terms and conditions captured in the applicable facility documents or in case of enhancement of facilities, addition of any new product or interchangeability in the existing facilities, if such details are captured in the principle facility agreement.
Please refer to the process note on Renewal of Working Capital Facility
What are the changes that have been made in Section 14 under SARFAESI Act, 2002 by virtue of the Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws and Miscellaneous Provisions (Amendment) Act, 2016?
The changes made in Section 14 by virtue of the Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws and Miscellaneous Provisions (Amendment) Act, 2016 (hereinafter referred as the Amendment Act, 2016) has been summarized in the following points:
Second proviso to S. 14(1) - The Chief Metropolitan Magistrate(CMM)/ District Magistrate(DM) after being satisfied with the contents of the Affidavit shall pass suitable orders for the purpose of taking possession of the secured asset within a period of thirty days from the date of application The insertion of a proviso after the second proviso- In circumstances beyond the control of the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate(CMM)/ District Magistrate(DM), the time period of thirty days may be extended to sixty days after recording of the reasons. No further extension beyond sixty days, in aggregate, is permissible.
The aforesaid insertions have been made after taking into account the delayed disposal of the cases by the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate(CMM)/ District Magistrate(DM).
Can offence Under Sec. 138 Negotiable Instruments Act can be compounded/settled?
Yes. In case the drawer/borrower pays the cheque amount, the court may allow the matter to be compounded or, in other words, closed without punishment.
What is the process to be followed by Debt Manager for withdrawal of Civil Suits / OA before DRT- (BY cases) pursuant to Settlement by customer?
Refer DSMG/OG/141 with regard to it. Contact DSMG Compliance team.
Is it necessary to obtain a shortfall undertaking from the shareholders of the borrower for? Shortfall undertaking will not be taken as a standard for every case. It will be taken on a case specific basis where specifically stipulated as a part of the sanction.
In case of the death of any Authorised Signatory of a Company, what process is to be followed for effecting change of account particulars?
The name of the authorized signatory is required to be deleted in accordance with the process laid down in e-Circular 9574 in this regard once a request for such change is received from the Company in writing providing intimation of the death.
What is the process to be followed by the Branch, if it is in receipt of a request for change of name in existing Accounts?
Branches to please be guided by e-circular 9574. Branches to specifically obtain a written request along with reasons for the request along with the applicable supporting documents for the request.
What is Principle of Accuracy under the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR)?
According to this principle, enumerated under Article 5 of the General Data Protection Regulations, the personal data collected should be accurate and wherever necessary, shall be kept up to date.
What is Right of Data Portability under GDPR?
The right enables individuals to receive their personal data that they have provided to the organization and transmit it to another organization without hindrance in a structured, commonly used and machine-readable format.
What to do when in a consortium, all pages of Memorandum of Entry are not signed?
The same to be recorded by Business Group in a letter to be issued to the lead bank, requesting that the Memorandum of Entry be adequately signed.
What if the signatures of the authorized signatory on the Account Opening Form and Account opening Cheque do not match?
The detailed process to be followed by Branch has been provided in clause 4.2.3 of master circular on KYC being circular no. 15436. In case of any concern, the Branch may draw upon the concerned Product and Compliance team.
Are drafts of security documents for pledge, hypothecation and mortgage available on the DMS? Yes, you can find the documents under Business Use for your concerned groups.
What is the stamp duty applicable on assignment agreement in Madhya Pradesh? 5% of the value of consideration (as on March 20, 2019).
What do you mean by dematerialized shares?
Shares which are held in electronic form are called dematerialized shares.
Can a partnership firm be a partner of another partnership firm? No.
Can a trustee delegate his office or any of his duties in favour of a Power of Attorney holder? A trustee can delegate his office or any of his duties only if requisite compliances under Section 47 of the Indian Trust Act are met and the trust deed provides for such delegation.
It is stipulated that the Memorandum of Entry shall be executed within 1 working day of the completion of mortgage. When is the creation construed to have occurred?
The mortgage is construed to be created when the title deeds are deposited with ICICI Bank or any other entity which is creating mortgage on behalf of ICICI Bank. Hence the date of deposit of title deeds i.e. the date of the Mortgage Declaration needs to be construed as the date of creation of mortgage.
Can lock-in securities be pledged?
Yes, it is permitted. However, shares under lock-in can be invoked by the pledgee only after the lock in period is over.
In case there are cancellations/alterations present in the Trust Deed which were done at the time registration and accepted by the Registrar, can such Deed be accepted for the purpose of account opening?
Yes. However, a declaration ought to be obtained from the customer stating that such changes were done prior to registration. Please refer to the process laid down in e-Circular 13799 in this regard.
What is a Limited Liability Partnership (LLP)?
A limited liability partnership (LLP) is a partnership in which the partners have limited liability and which is governed by the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008.
Can a Power of Attorney (POA) holder operate an account?
Yes. In addition to obtaining the POA of such POA holder, KYC related documents including photograph, identity proof and address proof of such POA holder should be submitted. Please be guided by e-Circular 15436 in this regard.
What is a leave and license agreement?
A leave and license agreement is an instrument/agreement wherein the licensor allows the licensee to temporarily occupy and use an immovable property or a portion of it in furtherance of the business activities/personal usage of the licenseefor a particular purpose as per the terms of agreement without creating any tenancy rights in favor of licensor. This is different from a lease where the exclusive possession of the immovable property is granted to the lessee. The Bank (lessee/licencee) generally prefers to enter into a lease deed rather than a leave and license agreement due to the greater rights being granted to a lessee, ie., the Bank.
What is the process to be followed to re-activate a dormant locker?
In case of a locker not being in operation for more than 2 years, the locker will become dormant. To activate the account, the customer needs to provide a request letter (please refer Annexure 9 of eCircular No. 9564) along with address proof for re-activating the account. The customer needs to operate the account atleast once in a year to keep the locker in active mode.
Does the borrower/ security provider need to execute undertaking to create permanent security together with power of attorney if there is a timeline for security creation in consortium cases? Undertaking and POA may not be taken in case lead bank of the consortium does not insist on such requirement. 
As per the WBG Deviation matrix, no such separate undertaking is required from the borrower, if the same is already covered under the underlying facility agreement. If third party security is being proposed and a timeline is taken for such security, then a separate undertaking will have to be obtained from such third party. In the states where POA is not obtained for security creation as a practice, then POA can be waived.  In places where POA is taken as per the practice followed, then it has to be taken for all cases where timeline for creation of security is granted to the borrower and security provider. Waiver for obtaining POA in such cases may be taken through requisite business approvals.
Can the property be sold below Reserve Price fixed under SARFAESI Act, 2002?
No
Do we need to execute any amendatory document in case of simple renewal without any change in terms?
No, renewal letter will suffice.
Which cases can be referred to DRT under the Recovery of Debts and Bankruptcy Act 1993? Only those cases where the amount of debt due to a bank or financial institution or to a consortium of banks or financial institutions is less than ten lakhs rupees (INR 10,00,000) or such other amount, being not less than one lakh rupees, as the central government may, by notification, specify.
Can One Person Company (OPC) have more than one member/shareholder?
No, a OPC can have only one member/shareholder.
In case of leasehold properties to be secured in favour of the Bank, can lessors' consent or permission to mortgage (PTM) be obtained post execution of security documents?
No. Permission to mortgage or lessors' consent is required to be obtained prior to mortgage creation. The terms of the lease deed also need to be reviewed to understand the requirements for PTM.
What are the consequences of non-payment of stamp duty?
Documents which are not stamped as per the applicable duty will not be accepted as evidence in a court of law.
What is the Limitation period to intiate legal proceedings - Civil/OA before Civil Court/Debt Recovery Tribunal (DRT) by Debt Manager?
Limitation period for Legal proceedings - Three years. For recovery of loan dues, limitation should be calculated from the last payment date, except for home and mortgage loans in which case the limitation is twelve years. For recovery of loan dues, limitation should be calculated from the last payment date or date of last document executed (Letter acknowledging the debt).
What action should be taken when a branch receives a notice from the Lok Adalat to appear before the State Legal Services Authority for non-payment of outstanding telephone bills? The Branch is to check and confirm whether the phone number mentioned in the notice pertains/pertained to the Branch and there are indeed such outstanding bills in which case the Branch is to take steps towards obtaining a duplicate copy of the bill/s and make immediate payment, before making an appearance before the Lok Adalat. The Branch may also touch base with the IMSG team in case of any issues as regards identification of the details pertaining to the telephone number.
Do we need to obtain the Board Resolution even if we have the sub-committee resolution from the sub-committee to whom powers for borrowing and signing has been delegated by the Board? Yes. The board resolution pursuant to which the powers are delegated to the sub-committee should be obtained and kept on records to verify the details of the powers delegated to the sub-committee.
Can the CAL be uploaded as a document while filing Form CHG-1?
In CHG-1 Form, only the charge creating documents are to be annexed. Since CAL is not a charge creating document, it is not required to be annexed in CHG-1 Form.  It is advised that the CAL is not uploaded on the MCA while filing the Form CHG-1 since it includes  several commercial terms such as pricing etc. which should not be shared with other parties.
Can a LAD be taken after the expiry of the previous LAD? Can there be a timeline provided for taking LAD?
A LAD must be taken prior to the expiry of three years from the date of the previous LAD or in case of the first LAD being submitted, prior to three years from the date of the principal facility agreement. No timelines can be provided.
Where can I obtain/purchase a Digital Signature Certificate?
Legally valid Digital Signature Certificates are issued only through a Certifying Authority (CA) licensed by Controller of Certifying Authorities (CCA), Govt. of India.
Can a Board Resolution specifying an umbrella notional limit be accepted?
Yes. It is necessary that the Board Resolution specifies the notional limit for derivative facility (other than forex forwards). In case of BR for forex forward contracts, if notional limit is mentioned in the BR, limit monitoring letter is required to be obtained. 
However, in case the counterparty has provided a BR for generic and structured derivative products but is only willing to undertake forex forward contracts with ICICI Bank, then the notional limit must be exclusive of forex forward contracts. In case, the same is not so, then a limit monitoring letter is required to be obtained. 
In case the BR contains consolidated limits for a number of banks, limit specific to ICICI Bank should be provided with approval from the RBI Compliance Team.
Whether copy of panchnama and inventory to be delivered to the owner/borrower under SARFAESI Act, 2002? Yes
What is a Depository?
A depository is a facility that holds financial securities such as shares, debentures, bonds etc. in dematerialized form at the request of the investors through a Depository Participant. Currently, NSDL (National Securities Depository Limited) and CDSL (Central Depository Services (India) Limited) are the two Depositories in India.
In takeover cases, do we need to take fresh permission to mortgage (PTM) even if PTM was granted by the authority for the facilities being taken over?
The terms of the lease deed and the terms of the existing PTM need to be reviewed to ascertain if there is a requirement for fresh PTM.
Can a licensee sub-license the property to a third party?
In case the right to sub-license being agreed upon in writing by the licensor and licensee, the licensee shall be entitled to sub-license the property as per the terms agreed between the parties.
What is the Limitation to file Sec. 138 NI Act cheque bounce complaint?
The bank should file the complaint within one month of expiry of the 15 days period from the date of receipt of notice/acknowledgement/complaint from RTO.
Can clubs open accounts with the Bank?
Clubs which are registered as a society / trust / section 25 company (incorporated under Companies Act, 1956/ Section 8 company (incorporated under Companies Act, 2013) are permitted to open accounts with the Bank as per the process in e-Circular 13799.Unregistered clubs cannot open an account with the Bank. However, the restriction is not applicable to clubs of Defense, Government Organizations and PSUs. The process laid down in e-Circular 13799 is to be followed in this regard.
What is Rematerialization of shares?
Rematerialization of shares is the process by which the investor can convert the dematerialized shares (i.e. in electronic form) into physical certificates.
What if the mortgagor-borrower pays off his dues before sale of the property in auction or otherwise under SARFAESI Act, 2002?
In case the borrower/mortgagor pays the entire outstanding dues, at any stage, prior to publication of sale notice, then SARFAESI proceedings shall be immediately terminated. Further as per amended provisions, the borrower/mortgagor can exercise the right of redemption only until the date of publication of auction notice. The right to redemption i.e. closure of Loan Account is not excercisable post publication of sale notice.
Can a minor be a partner in a partnership firm?
A minor cannot be a partner in the firm even through his natural / legal guardian, but can be admitted to the benefits of a partnership, with the consent of all the partners.
Does the Board Resolution need to be certified as valid and subsisting at the time of renewal of the working capital facilities?
Yes, if we are relying on a board resolution which is older than 6 months.
What happens to a partnership account upon death or retirement or insolvency of a partner? Unless the partnership deed provides otherwise, the firm automatically dissolves upon the death or retirement of any partner and the surviving partners can act only for winding up of the activities of the firm. On receipt of notice of death / retirement / insolvency of a partner, debit operations in the account should be stopped to ascertain the liability of the deceased / retiring / insolvent partner.
 
When the credit facilities are continued to the reconstituted firm after proper credit appraisal, a Declaration (standard format available in the DMS linkhttp://universe.icicibankltd.com/businessgroups/legal/HTMLs/dms_misc.htm#dec) shall be obtained stating inter alia the fact of the reconstitution and the fact that the share of such deceased/retiring/insolvent partner has been frozen. Necessary proof stating the acknowledgement of receipt of such share by the legal heirs of the deceased partner/retiring partner/official receiver, as the case may be should also be obtained, post which the old account can be continued. The Declaration is to be signed by all the partners of the reconstituted firm. As a result of death or retirement or insolvency of partner(s) if there is only one partner surviving, then credit facility cannot be continued to the firm as it stands dissolved.
Will the statutory moratorium period provided for corporate debtors facing insolvency proceedings include personal guarantors?
No, the statutory moratorium period under Section 14 of IBC provided for corporate debtors facing insolvency proceedings will not apply to personal guarantors.
What should be done if the joint holders of a locker facility approach the Bank for deletion of name of a Primary Holder?
Deletion of Primary holder is not permissible in any case and hence, the branch should terminate the locker relationship with the locker holders.
Can title documents of a company having several authorized signatories be handed over to any one such authorized signatory?
Title documents should be handed over to either any or all authorized signatories as per the mode of operation defined in the board resolution of such company. If such mode of operation is not clearly mentioned in the board resolution, a clarification letter on the letter head of the company should be additionally asked for, and such letter should be signed by a company secretary.
When will the right of the guardian appointed through will cease in the case when the Hindu minor is a girl?
The right of the guardian appointed through will ceases upon the marriage of the girl.
Whether Letter Acknowledging Debt (LAD) is required for derivative facility? No.
What is the role of Product DPR and Debt Manager acting as Authorised Representative when court ask for the Original Documents in S. 138 NI Act Complaint?
As and when court will ask to produce the original documents, the Authorised Representative (AR) will immediately inform the same to Product FPR. Product FPR will retrieve the original documents, like agreement copies etc. as per the retrieval process, and hand it over to the AR . While raising retrieval request, Product FPR will mention the case details such as case number, court name, advocate name and the AR name.The AR while handing over the original documents to the court, will take a certified copy of the order mentioning such receiving of original documents. A copy of all the original documents should be acknowledged by the AR mentioning his/her Emp id. This copy to be maintained in customer file. Product FPR to collect the certified copy of the said order from the AR and send it back to ROPS for their records by creating a SR mentioning the original docs retrieval SR number. Product FPR will maintain a list of all such SRs, Case Numbers, Court name and share the same with Zonal Strategy Manager every month.
What to do when Stamp paper has been purchased in the name of the lead bank instead of the client for consortium facility documents?
The same may be acceptable as long as the stamp paper is bought in the name of any of the parties to an agreement.
What is to be done if the customer requests for change in address for a Savings Account, Term Deposit, Demat Account, Credit Card, Loans, 3 in 1 I-Direct Customers or a ICICI Prudential Policy but cannot submit an address proof in her/his name?
If a customer furnishes an address proof in one of his/her relatives name and the applicant is one of the family members residing on the same address with that relative, then additionally an identity and address proof shall be required to be obtained from such relative along with a declaration as per process laid down in e-circular 9574.
Whether there is a requirement to obtain a ratificatory BR after disbursement in cases where an enabling BR was obtained before disbursement for SMEAG cases?
There is no requirement for a ratificatory BR in addition to the enabling BR provided the only difference between the enabling BR and the ratificatory BR is the mention of the CAL number.
Do you need an LLP agreement for opening account for an LLP?
Yes, the LLP deed is mandatorily required for opening of an account for LLP.
Can a One Person Company (OPC) have more than one member/shareholder? No, a OPC can have only one member/shareholder.
Can a member/shareholder of a One Person Company (OPC) become a member/shareholder in another OPC by virtue of being a nominee in that other OPC?
No, if a member in One Person Company becomes a member in another OPC by virtue of his being a nominee in that OPC, then such person he/she shall withdraw his membership from either of the OPCs within 108 (one hundred and eighty days)
Whether company (private or public) can convert into LLP?
Yes, you may refer your specific query to CLG in this regard.
Can the Bank on board visually impaired individuals as customers and/ or provide facilities/open accounts to/for visually impaired customers?
Yes, bank accounts may be opened for visually impaired customers. Please refer to e-circular 14067 and follow the process laid down.
Can a mortgage be created on future property?
No, a mortgage cannot be created on future property.
Can an individual open a resident account on the basis of a power of attorney (POA)? No. Please be guided by the process laid down in e-Circular 13807 in this regard.
<a href="http://myecirculars.icicibankltd.com:84/ibankecircmainapp">Link to open E-Circular</a> Or 
Use below navigation path
Universe>E-Circulars>E-Circular Home>Quick Search>Enter Circular Number
What is the procedure to be followed when the mortgagor of the property dies during the tenure of the facility?
If the mortgagor of the property dies, then the procedure is as follows:
(i)a will/succession certificate (family tree) of the deceased to be submitted by the legal heirs. In territories where a will is required to be probated, the document issued by the court granting such probate must also be submitted;
(ii)the legal heirs of the deceased mortgagor must be identified and a deed of confirmation/ declaration for creation of charge over the immovable property shall be taken from all the legal heirs. Relevant drafts shall be provided by CLG.
Whether proceeding under section 138 of Negotiable Instrument Act or Cheque Bounce Complaint can be filed post filing of DRT OA or Civil Suit?
Yes, only in case of a void settlement whereby cheque is issued by the borrower in lieu of settlement.
Whether SARFAESI Act, 2002 has overriding effect over other laws?
Yes as per S. 35 of the SARFAESI Act, 2002, the provisions of this Act shall have overriding effect over other laws i.e., the provisions of this Act prevails over other laws if any inconsistent therewith is found. This is because, SARFAESI Act is a specific enactment for recovery of dues and so, shall prevail over general enactments.
Who does GDPR apply to?
The GDPR not only applies to organizations located within the European Union but also applies to organizations located outside of the EU if they offer goods or services to European Union data subjects. It applies to all organizations processing and holding the personal data of data subjects residing in the European Union, regardless of the organization location.
What is a Digital Signature?
A digital signature is an electronic form of a signature that can be used to authenticate the identity of the sender of a message or the signer of a document, and also ensure that the original content of the message or document that has been sent is unchanged.
What is a Depository Participant?
A depository participant is an agent of the Depository and acts as an intermediary between the Depository and the investor. A depository participant can be a bank, financial institution, brokerage house, or similar entity. To be eligible, it must be registered with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and comply with SEBIs norms and guidelines.
What is the difference between a pledge and hypothecation, as both relate to movable properties? In case of a pledge, the possession of the secured property is transferred to the lender/security trustee whereas there is no such transfer of possession in hypothecation. Pledge is typically created on shares whereas Hypothecation is created on other movable assets.
What is to be done if the Branch has received notice from Enforcement Directorate (ED)?
As per the revised Process Note, Branch should forward the notice to the concerned First Person 
Reporting (FPR) for the concerned business group and have a suitable response be drawn up, along with any data or document as may be required by the ED, through such FPR. Such response may be shared with the Corporate Legal Group for vetting.
Can interim compensation be claimed by Bank on filing of Sec. 138 NI Act complaint?
Yes. Interim compensation upto 20% of the cheque amount can be claimed as per the amendment in NI Act in July 2018
In case of forward contracts only, are notional limits required to be mentioned in the clients board resolution for availing such facilities? No.
Whether registration is required in case of personal guarantee for a domestic transaction? Since, personnel guarantee is merely contractual in nature, there is no need for registration of personnel guarantee.
What is the stamp duty on Bank Guarantees?
Stamp duty rates are updated on DMS and can be verified for each State. The path for the same is as follows. Universe> Business Group> Corporate Centre> Corporate Legal Group > Home > Business Use > Reference Material. For clarifications please reach out to CLG.
What should be the governing law and jurisdiction of the bank guarantee under URDG 758? Article 34 (Governing Law) and Article 35 (Jurisdiction) of URDG 758 state unless otherwise provided in the guarantee/counter guarantee, its governing law and jurisdiction should be the law and courts of the place of issuing branch/office of guarantor/ counter guarantor (as the case may be).
In case of demat shares, does the pledge agreement create the pledge?
No. In case of demat shares, the pledge is created by filing the requisite forms with the depository for pledge creation where the demat shares shall be marked as pledged. In case the depository is National Securities Depository Limited, the required form is Form 28 as can be found under NSDL (Business Rules), 2015. In case the depository is CDSL the required form to be filed  is Pledge Request Form filing  (PRF) as can be found under CDSL-DP operating instructions.
Whether security interest or charge over brands or trademarks can be created? Yes, security interest or charge over brands or trademarks can be created.
Can stamp duty be refunded on unused stamps in Madhya Pradesh?
Stamps which haven't been used, can be deposited for refund within six months from the date of purchase of such stamps
At what point of time is Stamp Duty payable under the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958?
All the instruments executed shall be stamped before or at the time of execution or immediately thereafter or on the next working day following the day of execution. Similarly, the instruments chargeable with stamp duty which is executed out of the State shall be stamped within three months after it has been first received in this State.
Are leasehold rights inheritable? No.
Who will certify the board resolution of a Company having only two directors and both of them are authorized to sign documents on behalf of the Company?
The directors may be severally authorised to sign the documents so the person certifying the BR need not sign the documents. Alternatively, the BR may be certified by a company secretary or in case the company does not have a company secretary and the BR does not specifically authorize any person, certification by any Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) of the Company who is not authorized under the BR is acceptable. In case all of the directors are authorized, then BR certified by any of the directors, other than the ones executing the documents can be accepted.
What is Right to Object under GDPR?
Under this right, the individual has a right to object, on reasonable grounds to processing of personal data concerning him.
When an equitable mortgage is created by another bank, acting as our agent, and such bank does not collect all the title documents that are required to create a mortgage in the form and manner as specified in the TSR, can ICICI Bank accept such a mortgage creation? Please refer the matter to your CLG dealing officer.
When documents are signed/executed on the basis of a resolution passed by a committee of the board, do the references in the document to the resolution under which the authorized signatory has been empowered, have to refer to the board resolution empowering the committee?
While the main board resolution pursuant to which the powers are delegated to the committee should be obtained and kept on records to verify the details of the powers delegated to the committee, the date of the committee resolution has to be mentioned in the documents that are executed and stated that that the same is to be read with the principal board resolution. However, if the date and details of board resolution delegating powers to the committee is not specified, we may accept the document as long as the board resolution (empowering such committee) is also placed on record with the Bank.
Is charge required to be registered under Companies Act, 2013 on the properties situated outside India for security created by a company registered in India? Yes, it is to be registered.
What needs to be ensured by Debt Manager while mentioning the address of the property in the Demand Notice under section 13(2) of SARFAESI Act, 2002?
The property intended to be enforced needs to be mentioned and its address needs to be mentioned as per the title deeds available in our records. In absence of the title deeds, the property address should be extracted from the registered mortgage deed.
What compliances are to be met in case of mismatch in the List of Directors provided by a Section 25 company (incorporated under Companies Act, 1956) / Section 8 company (incorporated under Companies Act, 2013) and the updated data available on the website of the ROC?
In the event of a mismatch, the process laid down in e-Circular 13799 is to be followed.
<a href="http://myecirculars.icicibankltd.com:84/ibankecircmainapp">Link to open E-Circular</a> Or 
Use below navigation path
Universe>E-Circulars>E-Circular Home>Quick Search>Enter Circular Number
What should the Infra Facility Manager(IFM) do if CIDCO/MIDC or any such equivalent authorities, give conditional No Objection Certificate(NOC)?
Authorities such as MIDC etc. or any such equivalent authorities generally grant No Objection 
Certificate(NOC) for execution of Leave and License /Lease Agreement for a specific time period and therefore the Bank shall be entitled to execute Leave and License/Lease Agreement for time period as specified in the NoC.
Can a foreigner/ NRI become Nominee of One Person Company? No, the nominee of the OPC must be an resident Indian citizen.
How can the rent be paid by the Infra Facility Manager (IFM) in case if the Lessor is a company which has been delisted by Registrar Of Companies(ROC) and the accounts of the company is freezed on such delisting?
The IFM will pay the rent as per the order of the court, if any, and/or in the account number (not frozen) provided by the company.
Where lies the Appeal against the order of Recovery Officer in Recovery Proceedings/Execution Proceedings initiated as execution of Recovery Certificate (RC) passed by Debt Recovery Tribunal (DRT) in Original Application (OA). Can Customer challenge the Recovery Certificate(RC)? Yes, the Appeal lies with Presiding Officer (PO) DRT.
What is to be done if a notice is received at the Branch from Criminal Investigation Department (CID)?
The Branch should immediately forward the notice to the FCGPG team and the follow the process laid down under E-Circular No. 14659 for the purposes of duly responding to such notice.
Can the bank accept a customer request for opening of Fixed Deposit without premature withdrawal facility?
Yes, the Bank can accept a fixed deposit without the option of a premature withdrawal facility. Please refer to e-circular no. 9567 and follow the process laid down therein.
Is Management Undertaking required to be signed by all the directors of the Company? Yes. Management undertaking is required to be obtained when the same is stipulated in the sanctioned proposal note/ CAL.
What is the territorial Jurisdiction to file proceedings for Execution of Decree?
(i) If the property is situated or the person stays/carries business at a place which falls under the jurisdiction of the court which has passed the Decree/Order, the execution application has to be filed in the same Court. (ii) If the property is situated or the person stays / carries business at a place which does not fall under the jurisdiction of the court which has passed the Decree / Order, the same has to be transmitted to the court which has such jurisdiction.
Who will have the custody of a Hindu minor who has not completed 5 (five) years of age? The Hindu mother will have the custody of a Hindu minor who has not completed 5 (five) years of age. In case of the death of the mother, the father will have custody. However, in case of death of both parents the guardianship of the minor shall lie with the person(s) so appointed under the will of the parent(s) or by the order of a competent Court.
What are the duties of Receiver appointed by Court/Tribunal?
Receiver need to comply with all the directions given by the court and is responsible for taking possession of the property / Assets. Receiver shall be responsible for Protection , Management and preservation and disposal of asset as per the directions of the court.
If all the safe custody memos applicable to a facility are not mentioned in the security clearance memo moved in relation to the facility, is any confirmation required from CLG?
No, please obtain this from the business team only.
What documents are needed when there is a change in constitution of the Borrower from a proprietary concern to either a company or a partnership firm or an LLP Here fresh set of documents will need to be executed.
Whether Criminal and Civil case can be filed simultaneously Debt Manager? Yes, Criminal and Civil case can be filed simultaneously.
Is submission of PAN card mandatory for account opening?
Yes. In case of unavailability of PAN Card, form 60 shall be required to be submitted by the proposed customer. Please be guided by the process laid down in e-Circular 15436 in this regard.
What is to be done when the survivor co-applicant/applicant of a Kisan Credit Card (OD) Facility wishes to continue the account upon death of an applicant/co-applicant?
In case the survivor wants to continue the account, the existing account has to be closed and fresh 
KCC limit to be sanctioned, as per process laid down for deceased claim settlement provided in the Retail Branch Manual should be followed. Death certificate to be obtained as proof of death of the applicant / co-applicant along with request letter. 
The following path can be followed for the process note:
Universe>Retail Branch Manual>Customer Service> Process of Deceased Claim Settlement at Retail Branches
Can an AOF be rejected solely on the ground that nomination has not been provided or applicant(s) refused to submit nomination or on account of incomplete nomination?
No an account opening cannot be rejected simply on account of nomination not being provided. Please adhere to the process laid down in e-Circular 15436 in this regard.
What remedy does the owner/co-owner of a property have, in respect of a property which has been leased to a tenant who is not paying rent as per the terms of the agreement?
A civil suit for may be filed before a competent court of law for recovery of the share of rent and also eviction of the tenant.
What is to be done if a nominee has approached the Bank, requesting for settlement of claim in his favor?
Ask the nominee to furnish a copy of the Death Certificate Original Seen Verified (OSV) to be carried out by the Branch. Check whether the account is in individual name or in joint name. Branch to refer to Annexure 28 as provided in e-Circular No. 9577 consisting of checklist of documents that needs to be obtained from the nominee. 
Branch shall seek the assistance of Regional Risk Manager (RRM) mapped to the branch in this regard.
<a href="http://myecirculars.icicibankltd.com:84/ibankecircmainapp">Link to open E-Circular</a> Or 
Use below navigation path
Universe>E-Circulars>E-Circular Home>Quick Search>Enter Circular Number
Can a daughter in law be a Karta for the purpose of Hindu Undivided Family (HUF) accounts? No. Coparcenary is determined by blood which means that daughter in law and mothers cannot be coparcener in the father in laws or husbands coparcenary, respectively.
Who is liable to pay Stamp Duty under the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958?
As per the provisions of Section 30 of the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958 the onus of payment of stamp duty, in the absence of an agreement to the contrary, is on the person executing the instrument. However, in terms of the amendments to the Act, if any instrument is executed after May 01, 2013 which creates a right in favour of any bank, non-banking financial company, housing finance company or alike (each a Financial Institution), then such Financial Institution would be liable to pay the stamp duty thereon. The Financial Institution is however permitted to recover the stamp duty from the executant/ counter party of such instrument.
What is an Interim Application filed in a suit/proceeding?
An interim application is a specific application made in a suit/proceeding that has been filed, to seek an interim/temporary relief from a court/tribunal.
What is the timeline for  compulsorily registrable documents to be registered?
Compulsorily registrable documents are to be registered within 4 months from the date of execution. However, if registration of such documents is a pre-disbursement condition, the same has to be done upfront in spite of the statutory timeline.
What is the stamp duty payable on an Affidavit in Maharashtra?
In Maharashtra, the stamp duty which is payable on an Affidavit is Rs. 100/- only.
How is a landlord entitled to recover possession?
A licensee/lessee in possession of premises under license or lease shall be obligated to deliver possession of the premises to the landlord upon expiry of the license/lease and on failure to do so, the landlord shall be entitled to file an eviction suit before a competent court of law to recover possession of the premises.
Can internet banking access (view access/transaction access) be provided to government owned entities?
Internet banking access can be provided to government entities as per the process set out in ecircular no. 10641
Can a company become a partner in a partnership firm? Yes, a company can be a partner in a partnership firm.
In which all cases of Software Agreement, an Escrow Account is required to be opened to keep the Source Code with an ICICI Bank approved Escrow agency?
Escrows are required in case of license agreements of Critical software when we dont' have intellectual property rights pertaining to Source Code of the software to ensure that the business operations are not disrupted in the event the entity licensing the software to the Bank goes bankrupt, cannot perform its obligations etc.
Whether the absence of a common seal on any document (except power of attorney and share certificates)  shall invalidate such document ?
Failure to affix the common seal on any document (except power of attorney and share certificates) by itself will not invalidate such document if the same has been executed pursuant to and in accordance with the Board Resolution.
While initiating proceeding under section 138 of Negotiable Instrument Act or Cheque Bounce Complaint  against a company, to whom all notice should be issued?
The notice should be issued to the Company, all working directors at the time of issuance of such notice and the signatory of the cheque.
Branch is in receipt of an Advocate Notice. What are the steps to be followed?
Branch to send the copy of the notice to the CSG team by raising an SR on the team and following the process as laid down in e-circular no. 8150.
Whether Debt Manager can present the Cheque again, where no cheque dishonor complaint was filed upon issuance of demand notice u/s 138 of NI Act, earlier. Whether borrower can be prosecuted u/s 138 of NI Act on basis of second or successive dishonor, followed by issuance of second demand notice u/s 138 NI Act.
Yes. The Cheque can be presented anytime within the validity period. Complaint u/s 138 of NI Act can also be filed against borrower on basis of second/successive presentation of Cheque followed by issuance of second notice of demand.
What is a blockchain?
Blockchain is literally just a chain of blocks, the words block and chain in this context mean the transactions i.e., (the block) stored in a database (the chain).
Does the Requisition to Title need to be signed by the Borrower/ Security Provider? It has to be signed by security provider.
What is a certificate under Bankers Books Evidence Act, 1891 that is produced when filing an application before the DRT?
The certificate under section 2A of the Bankers Books Evidence Act, 1891, is issued by the branch when producing print outs of entry or a copy of such printout in relation to the books maintained with the Bank. This certificate confirms that various conditions under Section 2A in relation to the integrity of the books maintained electronically have been complied with.
Can a person who has ceased to be a (Hindu) be a natural guardian?
No. A person who has ceased to be a hindu, is not qualified under law to act as a natural guardian of a hindu minor.
For dishonour of cheque belonging to joint account holders, whether it should be signed by all account holders?
Yes, in case of Joint Account Holders, the cheque should be necessarily signed by all the joint account holders.
Can a customer approach a non-base branch for PAN updation?
Yes. The process laid down in e-Circular 9574 is to be followed in this regard
The branch has received a summons to witness notice from a Court, what needs to be done? If the summons is addressed to any particular employee by name, then that employee needs to attend the Court on the date of hearing mentioned in the notice. In case, the summons is addressed to the Branch Manager or by designation, to secure attendance on behalf of the Bank, then the BM or any other officer duly authorized shall ensure appearance before the court having issued the summons. The official so appearing shall attend the Court and furnish the documents as may be mentioned in the summons under a covering letter and depose in the capacity of a witness by answering questions asked by the Court to the best of his/her knowledge.
Can a woman be a coparcener in a Hindu Undivided Family?
A daughter of a karta/coparcener, by birth, becomes a coparcener in the same manner as a son and has the same rights in the coparcenary property as she would have had if she had been a son.
What is a lease?
A lease of immoveable property, as per Section 105 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, is a transfer of a right to enjoy such property, made for an agreed time in consideration of a price paid or promised (in the form of  money, a share of crops, service or any other thing of value), which is to be paid periodically (on specified occasions) to the transferor by the transferee, who accepts the transfer on such terms.
What is the limitation period for referring a case before Lok Adalat?
The period of limitation is 3 years from the date of the last payment received/ paid by the borrower towards his loan.
What is to be done if the Branch has received a letter from another Bank, asking to close the Current Account opened with ICICI Bank & remit funds as the Customer has availed Financial assistance with that Bank?
Refer to e-circular no. 14006 and follow the detailed process laid down therein. For any further clarifications, reach out to the Central Current Account Product Team.
Is stamp duty required to be paid on loan application form under Gold Metal Loans? No.
Process to be followed while taking Symbolic Possession of immovable property under SARFAESI Act.
"Authorized Officer of the Bank,  in the grade of Chief Manager and above, shall take or cause to be taken possession of immovable property by: 
a) Delivering possession notice to the borrower; 
b) Affixing the possession notice on the outer door or at any conspicuous place of the immovable property.
c) Publication of possession notice within  seven days from the date of taking possession, in two leading newspapers,  (out of which one should be in vernacular) language having sufficient circulation in that locality.
 
 "
Post creation of pledge over dematerialized shares, will the beneficial ownership over the shares pass from the pledgor to the pledgee? No.
Do we need to obtain Shareholders Resolution under 180(1)(c) for working capital facilities?
No
What is Principle of Data Minimization under the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR)? According to this principle, contained in Article 5 of the GDPR, only personal data that is adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed should be collected.
To whom do the General Data Protection Regulations apply?
The General Data Protection Regulations apply not only to organizations located within the European Union but also applies to organizations located outside of the EU if they offer goods or services to European Union data subjects. It applies to all organizations processing and holding the personal data of data subjects residing in the European Union, regardless of the location.
What are the consequences of non-availability of requisite approvals from the municipal corporation for use of the premises for a commercial purpose?
In the absence of requisite approvals from the municipal authorities for use of the property for a commercial purpose, and in case of usage of such premises by the Bank, the Bank may be liable to any penalties that may be imposed by the Municipal Authorities for conducting operations without permission.
What happens if the instrument is executed on stamps which does not bear the name of one of the executors?
Such instruments are not admitted in evidence, for any purpose. These instruments are also treated as not properly stamped. These instruments are liable to be impounded and sent to the Collector of Stamps for recovery of proper stamp duty.
What are the requisites of a valid simple receipt evidencing payment of stamp duty in Maharashtra? The simple receipt is to be signed by the stamp duty payer. Then it needs to be defaced by the registering officer or any other officer authorized to do so within a period of six months from the date of purchase of stamps.
 Such a simple receipt containing the 'Challan Identification Number (CIN)' issued by the authorised participating bank, the 'Government Reference Number (GRN)' issued by the Government Virtual Treasury and the reconciled data regarding the amount paid relating to it together shall be treated as sole proof of payment of Stamp Duty or Registration Fee and other charges. 
 The simple receipt as far as possible should be printed on the first page of the instrument and if it is not possible to print on the first page then it should be affixed on the first page of the instrument. In case of multiple receipts, either they may be printed serially date-wise on the front pages or similarly affixed on the top of the instrument, the defaced e-challan shall be affixed on the backside of the page where the simple receipt has been affixed or printed as the case may be. Provided that, if there is no space to affix the defaced e-challan as provided above, then in that case, it should be annexed at the end of the instrument.
What is to be done if a direction from court is received to submit certificate under section 65 B(4) of the  Bankers Books of Evidence Act,1872 or certificate under section 2A of the  Bankers Books of Evidence Act, 1891
Find the attached Certificate Under Section 65B. Please sign the same and submit it in Court. In case of any clarification required, get in touch with the concerned Corporate Legal Group team member.
Does the SARFAESI Act, 2002 provides protection to action taken in good faith?
Yes,no suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the secured creditor or any of its officers for anything done or omitted to be done in good faith under the SARFAESI Act, 2002.
wbg
test solution
How is the priority of debt decided?
Once the claim of the applicant bank has been crystallized and RC has been drawn, recovery of bank is treated at priority over the statutory dues. Similarly, in case of liquidation, secured creditor dues are prior to statutory dues.
Can entities having permission to receive foreign contributions be allowed to open Special Savings Accounts?
Such entities may be allowed to open accounts subject to permission under the FCRA being in place and the process as laid down in e-circular no. 13799 being followed
In cases of Trust, Association, Societies & Club (TASC) accounts, if a request is received from any other office bearer other than the authorized signatory, can the Bank act upon such requests? No. Only authorized signatories can make requests on behalf of the customer. Please refer the matter to the local CLG FPR in case of any allegations of authorized signatories being removed as members.
Is it necessary under law to affix rubber stamp of the company while signing the facility documents?
As per practice, rubber stamp of the company is required to be affixed on the documents at the time of execution. However, if the company does not have a rubber stamp, such requirement can be waived.
What is to be done when confirmation letter from security trustee or lead bank on holding original documents is not available?
Business Group should engage with the Lead Bank and the Security Trustee for issuance of confirmation letter on documents stored or obtained for the transaction.
Is CERSAI registration important to enforce security under SARFAESI Act,2002?
Yes, After the introduction of new amendment to SARFAESI act, debt owed to a secured creditor like banks will get priority over all other claims including other debt and all revenue, taxes, cesses and dues payable to the Central and state governments and local authorities. If the charge is created on properties of the borrower/guarantor through mortgage/hypothecation in favour of the bank and same is registered and filed with CERSAI, Tax or Government Authorities, or other parties cannot claim any priority over the amount in respect of pending SARFAESI proceedings initiated by the Banks or the amounts already recovered by the bank by sale of secured properties of the borrower/guarantor under SARFAESI Act
How can the risk of a property having outstanding tax dues be mitigated?
In case there are any outstanding tax dues payable or upto date tax receipts are not available, it is advisable to obtain an undertaking-cum-indemnity from the Lessor. Further, appropriate clauses to this effect are to be incorporated in the Lease Deed as well.
What documents should the Infra Facility Manager (IFM) collect from the owner of a property for obtaining Title Search Report (TSR)?
All chain title documents, copy of approved plan, copy of Occupation Certificate(OC)/Completion 
Certificate(CC), payment of property taxes at commercial rate, Builder No Objection 
Certificate(NOC)/Society No Objection Certificate(NOC), utility bills paid as on date has to be collected by Infra Facility Manager (IFM).
Can the Bank/Infra Facility Manager(IFM) renew the lease deed of existing premises if such premises do not have any Completion Certificate (CC)/ Occupational Certificate (OC) and permission for Commercial Usage?
Yes, the lease deed may be renewed subject to Zonal Infra Head approval.
Should additional interest be charged pending receipt of 281 IT Certificate?
No, provided the Borrower/ security provider has submitted CA Certificate in lieu of the 281 IT Certificate. Business Group to take relevant approvals for this.
Can a Board Resolution by circulation be considered for execution of International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) and/or entering into a forward contract/derivative transaction? Yes, a resolution for execution of International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) and/or entering into a forward contract/derivative transaction may be passed by circulation. Since it does not fall under either borrowing or investing of funds by a company, Section 179(3)(d) of the Companies Act, 2013 shall not apply. Further, forward contracts/derivative transactions are not listed under clause 6.1.1 and Annexure A of the Secretarial Standards which specifically provides for list of items for resolutions that cannot be passed by circulation.
Does section 180 of the Companies Act, 2013 apply to a private company?
No
Does a deed of hypothecation require execution by ICICI Bank as well?
No, a deed of hypothecation, being in the nature of a deed, is executed by the security provider in favour of ICICI Bank.
What is the process to be followed by Debt Manager for initiating settlement proceedings on Against cases wherein customer has filed a case against the bank?
Please refer DSMG/OG/140. Please co-ordinate with DSMG process team.
Branch has received a (Prohibitory / Deemed Defaulter) Notice from Employee's State Insurance Corporation (ESIC), what needs to be done
In case of prohibitory notices, please read & understand the requirement mentioned in the notice. If direction is to mark freeze / attach the account, then check whether the branch is able to identify the account based on the details provided in the notice. If branch is able to identify the account, then please check whether the account is an OD account. If OD account, then please do not remit the funds from OD account. Also check whether the amount is standing as security for any facility, if not then please follow the instructions immediately, provided the account is active. Branch officials shall also consult with the Regional Branch Process Manager and send the attached communication to ESIC, duly filled up. Please note, failure to act/respond on the part of the Bank may result in the Bank being considered as a defaulter. 
Deemed Defaulter Notice: 
In case of a Deemed Defaulter Notice being issued by ESIC, then please check whether any prior communication was received from ESIC in relation to the present notice. Whether the same was responded by the Branch. Please seek the assistance of Regional Branch Process Manager mapped to the Branch.
Can Debt Manager file Criminal Complaint against Delinquent Customer?
In select cases of fraud & cheating, criminal complaint may be considered subject to fraud investigation by FCPRMG team and with their consultation.
Can a single individual without any male or female member constitute/form HUF? No, a single person cannot constitute a family and thus cannot form a HUF.
In what manner should the LAD be stamped?
A revenue stamp is required to be affixed on the LAD.
Whether certified copy of constitutional documents are required at the time of limit set up only or also during enhancements or renewals?
Certified true copies can be taken at the time of initial limit set up. At the time of enhancement or renewals, a confirmation can be taken from the CS or the KMP or the signatory under the board resolution confirming no change in the constitutional documents has taken place since the date of submission of the last certified copy to the Bank.
Can shares in dematerialized form be pledged? Yes.
What is the procedure when the original title deeds received for mortgage are laminated? In cases where the original title deeds are laminated and there is a definite possibility of the title deeds being torn / damaged in case the lamination is removed, then laminated title deeds can be accepted without removal of the same from the lamination if the empaneled lawyer who has given the title / search report to us gives a certificate stating that the documents are correct as verified from the office of the Sub-Registrar where the documents have been registered. In addition, a suitable confirmation shall be taken separately from the mortgagor that the laminated copies are authentic and original. Format of the same shall be provided by CLG.
What is the stamp duty payable on the escrow agreement in Maharashtra?
Any escrow agreement in Maharashtra (which does not mention the fees payable to the escrow bank / agent), will be stamped as an agreement at INR 100. If there is any clause related to indemnity in the escrow agreement, it should be stamped at INR 100+ 500= INR 600 as of March 7, 2019.
Further, as of March 7, 2019, If any fee (annual) is stated in the escrow agreement, then the agreement shall be stamped at 0.1% (if the amount does not exceed 10 lakhs) or 0.2% of the amount (fees) agreed in the agreement and if the agreement contains an indemnity clause then it shall be stamped at INR 0.1% or 0.2% of the amount (fees) agreed in the agreement + INR 500. 
NOTE: Please ensure that the ready reckoner is referred to / relevant CLG team is consulted prior to assessing the stamp duty payable.
What is to be done when in case of a Kisan Credit Card (OD) Facility, the survivor applicant/coapplicant wants to close the account upon the death of co- applicant/ applicant?
Please refer to e-circular no. 13900 and follow the process laid down therein for closure of the account.
Which documents can be handed over to Advocate for Title Search Report (TSR) by Infra Facility Manager (IFM)?
All chain title documents, Copy of Approved Plan, Copy of Occupation Certificate(OC)/ 
Completion Certificate(CC), Payment of Property Taxes at Commercial Rate, Builder NOC/Society NOC, Utility Bills paid as on date has to be handed over to Advocate by Infra Facility Manager (IFM).
Is obtaining a legal guardianship certificate mandatory in the case of opening a legal guardianship account for special children?
Yes, a legal guardianship certificate issued either by a District Court under the provisions of the Mental Health Act, 1987, or by the Local Level Committee under the National Trust for the Welfare of Persons with Autism, Cerebral Palsy, Mental Retardation and Multiple Disabilities Act, 1999 is to be obtained along with KYC documents of such legal guardian. Please be guided by e-Circular 11234 in this regard.
Do Infra Facility Manager(IFM)/ Advocate conduct a Title Search for period 30 years for taking premises on lease?
No. Minimum 13 years search is mandatory for taking the premises on lease basis.
How should the account of a deceased person be dealt with?
Please refer to Circular No. 9577 for queries relating to deceased claim settlement.
In case of change of name of HUF, what process shall be required to be followed?
In case the Karta wishes to change his own name as well as that of the HUF in the existing current account, in such cases, the account need not be closed. The Bank can take any document issued by a statutory authority which not only reflects the new name but also evidences the change in the name of the Karta and the HUF. The process as laid down in e-circular 9574 is to be followed in this regard.
What documents are required to be obtained from beneficiary upon the expiry of bank guarantee? Discharge Letter from the beneficiary and the original bank guarantee issued.
In case of the death of an individual mortgagor having created security, what are the steps required to be followed?
The death of an individual mortgage would not ordinarily affect the validity of a mortgage already created during the lifetime of the individual. However, in case the property is to be mortgaged once again (for example, in case additional facilities are sanctioned or there is an enhancement in limits), the devolution of title of the secured property unto the deceaseds heirs is required to be ascertained. This would include ascertaining if the deceased had died intestate or left a will. The following are a list of indicative documents required to establish legal heirship of the deceased/ property succession: (1) legal heir certificate or succession certificate; (2) affidavit by legal heirs before a first class judicial magistrate; (c) in case the deceased left behind a will, copy of probated will/ letters of administration. All legal heirs unto whom the property of the deceased has devolved are required as mortgagors to any mortgage transaction post the death of the individual mortgagor. In case one or more of the heirs have relinquished title, supplemental TSR is required to be conducted to ensure all formalities relating to transfer of title (whether by way of a gift deed/ deed of relinquishment) have been properly carried out. Such additional deeds are also required to be deposited by the transferee/ mortgagor at the time of creation of mortgage.
Can we issue bank guarantees governed by foreign laws and subject to foreign jurisdiction? Do we have foreign law opinions on bank guarantees?
Yes, provided there is favourable opinion available on DMS for that particular jurisdiction and a foreign law indemnity is obtained. 
<Link to DMS> 
Or 
Use below navigation path 
Universe>E-Circulars>Business Groups>Corporate Centre>Corporate Legal Group
If an account holder is undergoing Corporate Insolvency Resolution Plan (CIRP) under Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (IBC), should the Bank adhere to the directions received from a 
Resolution Professional(RP)/ Interim Resolution professional(IRP)?
Branches to note that as per the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (IBC) Section 17- Management of affairs of corporate debtor by interim resolution professional, all financial institutions maintaining accounts of the corporate debtor shall act on the instructions of the Interim resolution professional in relation to such accounts and furnish all information relating to the corporate debtor available with them to the interim resolution professional.
Can pledge over dematerialised shares be invoked by the pledgee without the confirmation of the pledgor?
Yes. However, prior to invocation, any formalities contractually agreed by the pledgee (lender/ security trustee) under the pledge agreement need to be followed by the pledgee.
Can a non-resident Indian register a One Person Company, as per the Companies Act, 2013? No. Non-Resident Indians cannot register a One Person Company .
What is a Certifying Authority (CA)?
A Certifying Authority is a trusted agency whose central responsibility is to issue, revoke, renew and provide directories for Digital Signature Certificates. According to Section 24 of the Information Technology Act 2000, "Certifying Authority" means a person who has been granted a license to issue Digital Signature Certificates.
In case a lessor is a company how can a lease arrangement be formalized?
In case, the lessor is a company, a board resolution shall be required to be obtained from the 
Company authorizing execution of the lease deed by its authorized signatories
In case of change in name of a Borrower, does the Bank need to execute fresh documents in respect of the facilities provided?
Fresh documentation need not be executed, however appropriate documents should be obtained from the borrower to evidence the change in name. Eg. Copy of  Fresh Certificate of Incorporation upon change of name where the borrower is a Company.
Is the guarantee issued under URDG revocable?
A guarantee issued under URDG becomes irrevocable upon issuance even if it doesnt' specifically state so.
What is a vakalatnama?
Vakalatnama is a document which authorises an advocate to act on behalf of a party.
In whose name the stamps are required to be purchased?
The stamp paper can be in the name of any party to the document. In the event the stamp paper is being purchased by the bank, the authorized signatory of the bank shall be purchasing the stamp paper for and on behalf of the bank.
In case of a modification/change in the partnership arrangement of a partnership firm which is registered with the Registrar of Firms, is such modification/change required to be notified to the concerned Registrar of Firms?
Yes. Any change modification in the partnership arrangement being effected by a reconstituted deed shall be required to be notified to the concerned Registrar of Firms in prescribed forms. 
<a href="http://myecirculars.icicibankltd.com:84/ibankecircmainapp">Link to open E-Circular</a> Or 
Use below navigation path
Universe>E-Circulars>E-Circular Home>Quick Search>Enter Circular Number
In case the stamp paper used for execution of documents is more than 6 months old, whether the same can be accepted?
This varies from state to state. Please refer to your CLG dealing officer.
Can any changes be made to executed documents?
No. Change can be made to executed documents only by way of an amendatory agreement/deed. In case of hand-written details, or manual corrections/ additions, the pages are required to be countersigned by authorized signatories.
Whether an OPC can be converted to a Public Limited Company and vice versa?
A One person company can be converted to a Public Limited Company; however a public limited company cannot be converted to an OPC.
Can Letter Acknowledging Debt (LAD) be taken after the expiry of the previous Letter Acknowledging Debt (LAD)?
A Letter Acknowledging Debt (LAD) should be taken within 3 years from date of the facility agreement or the date of the previous LAD whichever is later.
In case of a joint savings account, wherein the mode of operation (MOP) is either or survivor, can a freeze be marked in the account, based on instructions received from one of the account holders? Yes, since the mode of operation (MOP) is Either or Survivor, the request received from one account holder may be acted upon and we may freeze such account.
Is letter of authority by an HUF in favour of its karta, for authorizing the Karta to open a bank account, borrow money or create security, required to be signed on a letterhead? No.
How Stamp Duty is calculated under the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958?
Stamp duty rates are updated on DMS and can be verified for each State. The path for the same is as follows. Universe> Business Group> Corporate Centre> Corporate Legal Group > Home > Business Use > Reference Material. For clarifications please reach out to CLG.
What is the stamp duty on Deed of Hypothecation?
Stamp duty rates are updated on DMS and can be verified for each State. The path for the same is as follows. Universe> Business Group> Corporate Centre> Corporate Legal Group > Home > Business Use > Reference Material. For clarifications please reach out to CLG. If a specific entry is not available for hypothecation, then stamp duty should be paid as General Agreement + Indemnity.
Is CAL a Transaction Document?
Yes, it is for rupee term loan and working capital facilities.
Is it necessary to execute security documents in case of a reduction in the facility?
No, it is not necessary to execute security documents in case of a reduction in the facility. The reduction can be recorded through an NOC as well. The charge registered vide Form CHG-1 can be modified on the basis of both revised security documents as well as an NOC.
What rights an individual has under GDPR?
There are eight fundamental rights of individuals under GDPR namely:  the right to be informed, the right to access, the right of rectification, the right to erasure, the right to restrict processing, the right to data portability, the right to object and the right of automated decision making and profiling. These rights are discussed in detail in subsequent questions on GDPR.
What is the purpose of appointment of an EU representative under the General Data Protection Regulations?
Controllers or processors not established in the EU are required to appoint an EU Representative as per Article 27, to make sure that organizations located outside the EU have a physical presence in the EU as a point of contact for questions and investigations.
In Maharashtra, how can one pay stamp duty on compulsorily registered documents?
For the documents which are to be compulsorily registered under the Registration Act, 1908, the stamp duty and registration fees can be paid using simple receipt. Please note that simple receipts are required to be defaced concerned Registering Officer or the Collector within six months from the date of purchase of stamps. However, if the defacing is done automatically by the SARITA system, an endorsement of defacement would be sufficient.
Is 281(1)(a) Income Tax certificate under the Income Tax Act, 1961 required for hypothecation and pledge?
Yes. IT certificate under sec 281 (1)(a) is not required only if the assets are in the nature of stock in trade. To this effect, a certificate needs to be taken from the statutory auditor/ Company Secretary certifying non applicability of the certificate as the assets are in the nature of stock in trade.
What are the standard pointers to be checked in a BR?
Board Resolution:
The following essential pointers shall be looked for under the BR:
1 Availing the Facility/s from ICICI Bank (excluding derivative facilities), details of the facilities being availed;
2 Authorizing execution of Documents (including under Common Seal);
3 Authorising providing security;
4 Authorising completing all formalities connected with availing the Facility (including negotiationand finalization of the documents); and
5 Authorising certifying the Resolution and submitting to Bank for acting upon.
It must be noted that the board resolution for borrowings shall be passed only at a meeting of board and shall not be passed by circulation.
What deviations are permissible in respect of mismatch in the name of a customer as mentioned in the Account Opening Form (AOF) viz-a-viz Identify proof (ID. Proof)?
The account should always be opened in the name as appearing in the ID proof. In case of instances where the name on the ID. is incomplete, abbreviated, faulty or changed due to translations, the permissible deviations can be certified by the Deputy Branch Manager/Branch Manager/Regional Head Sales as the case may be in accordance with the deviation matrix as provided in e-Circular 15436.
What are the list of consortium documents that are required to be executed for consortium lending transactions where ICICI Bank is the lead bank?
The list of documents to be executed with the borrower by the consortium are dependent on the circumstances in relation to which the documents are required to be undertaken and the terms of the loan. As an indicative list, for the provision of the loan, the following documents should be considered: 
1 A facility agreement,
2 An inter-se agreement
3 A security trustee agreement
4 A letter of authority to the lead bank
5 All applicable security documents (dependent on the structure of the sanction) 6  All applicable contractual comforts (dependent on the structure of the sanction).
In case of a change of name of a partnership firm maintaining a current account with the Bank, what process shall be required to be followed?
In case a partnership firm submits a request to change its name, then the account has to be closed and fresh account is to be opened provided the documents specified in e-circular 9574 has been submitted to the Bank.
In case at the time of execution, the date is left blank and there are no initials, and the CHG 1 is filed basis that document, whether the date manually filled in without initials can suffice since CHG 1 is already filed?
As per the standard practice, all the blanks that are filled in by hand will need to be initialed by the signatories to the document. Further as per LSOG Checks, date should be mentioned in the documents at the time of execution. However, on a case specific basis, an exception may be allowed depending upon the facts and circumstances of the matter.
What is Principle of Accuracy under GDPR?
According to this principle, the data collected should be accurate and wherever necessary, shall be kept up to date.
Can a resolution under Section 62(3) be obtained after disbursement?
No, such a resolution is required to be obtained upfront, before disbursement.
Can Debt Manager process lien marking on another Partnership account  wherein one of the partner is same  against the outstanding dues of Partnership Firm?
No
Can an entity with no presence in India open an NRO account in India?
Yes, provided the guidelines as outlined in e-Circular 13925 in regards to opening of such accounts are followed.
If the certificate of incorporation of a One Person Company does not specify the name of a director, who will be considered as a director?
The sole member/shareholder of One Person Company shall be considered as the director until the director or directors are duly appointed by the member in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
What is the difference between a letter of comfort and guarantee?
The nature of an LOC is determined by the contents and language of the LOC itself. An LOC could be akin to a guarantee or could be different, based on its contents. 
The standard format of the LOC, as available on DMS, is akin to a guarantee.
Other non-standard letters of comfort may set out various other obligations such as indemnity, obligation to fund the borrower or funding of escrow accounts, etc.
What are the steps involved in filing of Civil Suit?
Steps involved after filing a civil suit
1. Filing of plaint and numbering - The Plaintiff has to send the summons to the Defendant along with copies of the documents in a special form
2. Issue of summons to defendants - On receipt of summons, The Defendant has to enter his/her appearance through a memo duly giving his/her or his/her counsel address for further service of notice within 10 days from the date of receipt of summons, in Summary suits that means the amount due to be recovered is backed by cheques returned if any admitted amount by the defaulter. 3. Appearance of defendants and filing of vakalatnama - Once the defendant files a memo, the Plaintiff has to send summons for judgment along with affidavit verifying the cause of action and the amount claimed. Once the defendant receives summons for judgment he has to seek permission of the court to defend the suit by an affidavit within 10 days from the date of receipt of the summons for judgement in case the suit is Summary suit in civil court. CONTINGENCY - In the event of failure of appearance of defendants, The Defendants will be set ex-parte and the case will be posted for ex parte evidence and An ex-parte decree will be passed after evidence of the plaintiff. 4. Framing of issues - ISSUES are framed by the court, on the basis of which arguments and examination of witness takes place.
5. Argument
6. Decree to be drawn
What all the facilities and loan account to be captured in the Demand Notice under section 13(2) of the SARFAESI Act, 2002?
All the facilities availed by the borrowers and the loan account number that are secured has to be mentioned in the demand notice. In case, if Debt Manager require to send it then Format and other requisites are available with DSMG Process team/DSMG SARFAESI Team.
What is the procedure to receive foreign contribution when the person does not have registration to receive it?
Approval from the Central Government is required to receive foreign contribution if such person does not have a certificate of registration under the the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010.
Can a minor be a coparcener in a Hindu Undivided Family (HUF)? Yes.
What is the procedure to be followed and the documents required to be obtained for change of ownership by the Infra Facility Manager (IFM)?
The IFM is required to obtain copies of the following documents in case of change of ownership: 
A. In case of sale:- 
i. Letter of attornment, ii. Request letter from the new Lessor, iii. Copy of sale deed/gift deed, iv. Copy of registered lease deed between Bank and the Lessor, v. PAN card of new lessor,   
B. In case of Death:- 
i.Death certificate, ii. Affidavit enumerating the list of legal heirs, iii.  NOC from legal heirs who are not claimants in rent share, iv.  Legal heirship certificate(optional), v. Indemnity bond by all the legal heirs/claimant.
Is an indenture of mortgage required where an equitable mortgage is being created? No.
How does one ensure that the Memorandum Of Association & Article Of Association are recent?
Letter signed by key managerial personnel (KMP) of the Company accompanying the copy of MOA/AOA should mention that it is the latest and updated version or a valid and subsisting endorsement can be taken on the MOA/AOA with the date and signature clearly specified on the MOA/AOA itself that it is valid and subsisting as on the date of endorsement.
Whether it is mandatory to modify CHG form 1 in case of reduction of facility?
It is not mandatory, unless requested by the Borrower. CHG-I can be modified on the basis of an NOC or an amendment to the document creating the charge (if required).
What are the consequences of a licensee failing to deliver possession to landlord after expiry of tenure of leave and license?
Any licensee who does not deliver possession of the premises to the landlord on expiry of the period of license and continues to be in possession of the licensed premises till he is dispossessed/evicted under law shall be liable to pay damages and/or penalties which may be imposed by the Court.
Can Bank file complaint under Section 138 of Negotiable Instrument Act, if the cheque returned due to account is Account Freeze ?
No. As dishonor/return of Cheque/ECS/NACH/Auto Debit in such cases is not attributable to the conduct of the drawer/borrower or due to the reason of insufficiency of funds in the borrower's account. The Courts in such cases does not take cognizance of the complaint for the above stated reason.
In which Forum/Court/Tribunal the Civil Suit/Original Application (OA) should be filed by Debt Manager?
"For recovery of outstanding dues where the claim is: 
a) Less than INR 20 Lacs- Recovery/Civil Suit will be filed before the Civil Court. 
b) INR 20 Lacs and above- Original Application (OA) will be filed before DRT. 
c) For ICICI HFC Loans of any amount- Recovery/Civil Suit will be filed before the Civil Court. 
"
Can we take the premises on Lease, if Part Occupation Certificate is issued by the Corporation? Yes, provided that Part Occupation Certificate has been issued in respect of the Premises/Area which is proposed to be taken on lease.
What is to be done in case if the Infra Facility Manager(IFM) is in receipt of notice from govt authority/municipal corporation raising property tax related queries?
The Infra Facility Manager(IFM) is required to do the following: a. Initially, have to check the with consultant that property tax is charged  as per rate able value or as per capital value,b. Once it is confirmed that it is proper, the Infra Facility Manager(IFM) will have to pay the same if it is in Bank scope .
What is the timeline for CERSAI filing?
As per our policies, CERSAI filing has to be done within 30 days from the date of creation of charge/ mortgage. However, if CERSAI filing is a pre-disbursement condition, the same has to be done upfront in spite of the statutory timeline.
Are the various certificates are to be obtained for a transaction to be certified by a Statutory Auditor for SMEAG cases?
No, it has been agreed that instead of an independent CA, such certificates should be taken from a statutory auditor or a KMP, taking into consideration the obligations imposed on them under the Companies Act, 2013.
What is the applicable stamp duty in Maharashtra for a Confidentiality/ Non Disclosure Agreement? Rs. 600 (Including for Indemnity)
What is the process to be followed by Debt Manager for initiating legal action by filing a complaint Under Section 138 NI Act on account of dishonour of the cheques/Auto ECS Mandates/Mandated Auto Debits of delinquent borrowers of the bank?
Please refer DSMG/OG/85/2014. Please coordinate with DSMG process team.
What if the customer remains absent in court despite the service of summons Under Section 138 NI Act Complaint?
Despite service of summons by the police, if the accused remains to be absent in court on the posted date of hearing, then warrant is sent to police station to produce accused in court on next date of hearing.
Whether declarations provided on behalf of a company are required to be stamped?
Based on the content of the declarations being made by the company (nature and form of the document), stamp duty may be required to be paid.
What is the difference between a Digital Signature and a Digital Signature Certificate?
A digital signature is an electronic method of signing an electronic document whereas a Digital Signature Certificate is a computer based record that a)Identifies the Certifying Authority (CA) issuing it.
b)Has the name and other details that can identify the subscriber.
c)Contains the subscribers public key.
d)Is digitally signed by the CA issuing it.
e)Is valid for either one year or two years as per the terms of the CA issuing it.
Is there any age, income or amount related criteria for opening Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account (BSBDA) accounts by banks for individuals?
No. Banks are advised not to impose restrictions like age and income criteria of the individual for opening Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account (BSBDA).
Which all Addresses are to be mentioned in SARFAESI demand notice by Debt Manager? SARFAESI Demand Notice to be addressed on all available addresses of the borrower/coborrower/guarantor/mortgagor as per facility documents including the mortgaged property.  Format and other requisites are available with DSMG Process team/DSMG SARFAESI Team.
What is public key cryptography or asymmetric cryptography?
Asymmetric cryptography uses a private key to encrypt the information (used by the sender) and a public key to decrypt the information (used by the recipient).
Is CLG approval required on standby letter of credit (SBLC)  in standard format (both issuance & acceptance)?
Yes, SBLC that are being received by ICICI are to be vetted by Corporate Legal Group. All SBLCs being issued by ICICI are rooted through GTSU and in case of discrepancy are referred to Corporate Legal Group.
Whether it is mandatory to be obtain the requisition of title for all SMEAG cases? Requisition of title is not mandatory in all SMEAG cases.
What is to be done if the Branch has received a Notice from Income Tax Authorities with respect to appearance of Branch Manager(BM) of another branch with respect to account maintained at other branch?
The notice and details to be forwarded to the respective branch maintaining the account for necessary action and the said Branch Manager(BM) has to appear as per the notice instruction. Taxation team has to be contacted for their views/assistance. You may refer to e-circular no. 8360 for further guidance.
What are the documents that we should use for fresh sanction of rupee term loan and working capital facilities?
The Project Simplify documents, available on DMS, should be used for fresh sanction of rupee term loan and working capital facilities
If a stamp paper forms an integral part of the Agreement, can we accept the stamp paper if there is no mention of date in it?
No, stamp paper always has to have the date of issuance mentioned.
Why is the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) applicable to ICICI Bank Limited?
GDPR applies to any organization that offers goods and services to individuals who are residents of EU irrespective of the fact that the organization is situated outside EU. Since ICICI Bank Limited offers services such as opening of saving account, remittance services, etc. to individuals residing in the EU, the GDPR is applicable to ICICI Bank. 
The GDPR will also apply to offshore branches of ICICI Bank, say Hong Kong Branch, Singapore Branch if such branches are also providing any kind of services to EU residents.
Can we accept a Title Search Report by a advocate who is not empanelled with ICICI Bank? No, unless specific Corporate Legal Group approval is obtained
Can an account of a trust/society/club be opened in any other name than the one as reflecting on the deed/registration certificate?
No, the account should be opened in the name of the entity as mentioned in the registration certificate or as per title mentioned in office order or notification in case of designation account.
Should a personal guarantee be taken from a sole-proprietor in case a sole proprietorship is our Borrower?
No. The sole-proprietor is not a separate legal entity from the proprietorship concern. The liability of sole proprietor is unlimited and hence, separate personal guarantee is not required to be taken from sole-proprietor
Which filing should the Bank verify in case of change of registered office of the LLP?
Form 15 ( Notice for change of place of registered office) as per the format provided on the website of Ministry of Corporate Affairs.
Is filing of Form CHG-1 required when security is provided by an individual? No.
Does section 185 of the Companies Act, 2013 apply to letters of comfort?
In case of a letter of comfort akin to a guarantee, yes (subject to statutory exemptions). For all other letters of comfort, the applicability of Section 185 is to be determined on a casespecific basis on the basis of the obligations agreed to be undertaken by the LOC provider. The applicability of Section 185 in such cases requires assessment on a case-specific basis by CLG. Where the LOC provider undertakes to provide direct financial assistance to the borrower to make up for any shortfall in its debt servicing, the transaction would be treated as an inter-corporate loan. Section 185 is applicable to such transactions.
Can personal guarantee be executed on Company's letterhead?
No
What is to be done if, for the purposes of handover of title documents, the board resolution of a borrower company does not expressly mention that the title documents may be collected by the authorized signatory of such company?
If the board resolution contains a clause to the effect that the authorized signatory can do all such acts as maybe necessary for the purpose of the facility, the title documents may be handed over to such authorized signatory. Additionally, the branch should ensure that such board resolution is certified by the chairman/any director/company secretary of such company. Detailed process laid down in e-Circular 9560 to be adhered to.
In case of a Joint Locker, whether the same can be broken open in presence of any one of the locker holder(s)?
It is imperative that all the locker hirer(s) should be present when the locker is forced open. In case of a joint account, either all or one of the joint hirers (duly authorized by all the joint account holders) may be present to remove the contents of the locker when the lock is changed.
If the IU clause is adequately getting captured in the facility agreement, is a separate declaration from the borrower required?
No, since the facility agreement is duly signed by the borrower, a separate declaration is not required if the IU clause is adequately getting captured in the facility agreement.
What is the process to be followed in case the Bank has to break open a Locker or the nominee/claimant does not have keys to a deceased account holders locker?
In case the account holder/claimant does not have the locker keys, the locker needs to be broken open by the Bank. A letter from the claimant must be obtained stating that the keys are lost and it is imperative that the account holder/claimant and two other witnesses are present at the time of break open of locker. An acknowledgement receipt must be obtained from the claimant pursuant to which, the contents of the locker can be handed over to the account holder/claimant. Detailed procedure and formats as per the process of deceased claim settlement provided in the Retail Branch Manual should be followed. 
The following path can be followed for the same:
Universe>Retail Branch Manual>Customer Service> Process of Deceased Claim Settlement at Retail Branches
Whether application by lessee or tenant can be made in DRT? Yes. As per Section 17 & 17(4A) of the SARFAESI Act.
Does the Bank as secured creditor is protected for action taken in good faith under DRT Act?
Yes. As per S. 33 of DRT Act, no suit prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the 
Central Government or against the presiding officer of a Tribunal or the Chairperson of an Appellate Tribunal or against the Recovery Officer for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in purusance of this Act or any rule or order made thereunder.
Can SARFAESI action be proceeded against guarantors without proceeding firstly against the borrowers?
Yes. Without prejudice to the rights conferred on the secured creditor under or by this section, the secured creditor shall be entitled to proceed against the guarantors or sell the pledged assets without first taking any of the measures specified in S. 13(4) of the SARFAESI Act in relation to the secured assets under the Act.
What is to be done if a notice is received at the Branch from Serious Fraud Investigation officer (SFIO)?
As per the revised Process Note, Branch should forward the notice to the concerned First Person Reporting (FPR) for the concerned business group and have a suitable response be drawn up, along with any data or document as may be required by the SFIO, through such FPR. Such response may be shared with the Corporate Legal Group for vetting.
Do we mandatorily approach Legal service for mediation before filing Civil Suit having claim amount more than 3 lakhs?
Yes, in line to latest amendment, in commercial court cases having claim amount more then 3 lakhs has to be referred for mediation before Legal Serivice Authority prior to filing the Suit.
Can a minor become a nominee of an OPC?
No, a minor cannot become a nominee of an OPC.
Is it necessary to write the words one person company after the name of any such company? Yes, the words One Person Company must be mentioned in brackets below the name of such company, wherever its name is printed, affixed or engraved.
What is meant by impounding of instruments?
Every person having by law or consent of parties authority to receive evidence and every person in charge of public office before whom any instrument chargeable with stamp duty is produced or comes in the performance of his functions shall, if it appears to him that instrument is not duly stamped, impound the same, irrespective whether or not the instrument is valid in law. Such impounded document is required to be forwarded to the Collector of Stamps for recovery of deficit stamp duty in addition to penalty at the rate of upto 4 % per month.
Do we need to execute amendatory documents for revision in pricing in case of rupee term loan? If the facility agreement states that CAL is an integral part of the agreement and the details of the pricing is not stated in the agreement, then change in pricing may be communicated vide an amendatory Credit Arrangement Letter. If the facility agreement provides for the details of the pricing, then an amendatory agreement needs to be executed.
Whose approval should be obtained by the Debt Manager to file or withdraw legal cases against delinquent customer?
Please refer COED Note -Triggers for Legal action. In case of any query, please coordinate with DSMG Process team.
What is the procedure if the constitutional documents of a company do not have a  borrowing clause?
The constitutional documents of the company will have to be amended to include a borrowing clause.
Is it ok to record the Memorandum Of Entry on the next working day of the execution of Mortgage Declaration, if the immediately succeeding day is a holiday?
Yes, the Memorandum Of Entry is to be recorded on the next working day.
Where should the stamp papers in relation to the stamp duty payable on a document be purchased from?
The stamp paper should be purchased in the jurisdiction where the document is executed.
At what stage a Garnishee Order can be obtained?
A Garnishee Order can be obtained to order a third party to pay the Bank in place of the Borrower, only if Decree/Recovery Certificate is passed after completion of entire proceedings in favour of the Bank. It cannot be asked as an interim order.
Who is the appropriate authority for certifying a board resolution (BR)?
A BR may be certified by the Company Secretary or such other person who is specifically authorized/ designated under the BR to certify it to be true. In case the company does not have a company secretary and the BR does not specify anything, certification by any Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) of the Company is acceptable.
What action is to be taken when a branch receives a notice from a recovery officer under the Value Added Tax (VAT) Act or Service Tax Act or Sales Tax Act or Customs Act?
Branch to ensure compliance with the instructions as mentioned in the notice provided the notice has been served under the valid provisions of the concerned Act/Legislation upon obtaining views of the Taxation team and adhering to the process laid down in e-Circular 9125.
What is the right of data portability under the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR)? Provided under Article 20 of the General Data Protection Regulations, this provides data subjects with the right to receive their personal data that they have provided to a controller and transmit it to another controller without hindrance in a structured, commonly used and machine-readable format. The data subject shall also have the right to have the personal data transmitted directly from one controller to another, where technically feasible.
What amount should be mentioned in the Demand Notice under 13(2) of the SARFAESI Act, 2002? The amount mentioned should be as per the Statement of Account(SOA).
What is Right to Access under GDPR?
This right gives individual the right to obtain a copy of their personal data held by the organization processing his data.
Whether compliances under the Central Registry Rules, 2011 (CERSAI) are required to be completed for mortgage over Agricultural land? No.
Is part release/closure of pledge over dematerialized shares possible? Yes.
Whether there is a limit on number of deposits to be made in a Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account
(BSBDA)?
Yes, there is a limit on the number of deposits the customer can make in a BSBDA.
Does a revenue stamp in a Letter Acknowledging Debt need to be signed across? Yes. A revenue stamp or adhesive stamp has to be defaced or signed across.
Can a public company be converted to a One Person Company (OPC)? No, a public company cannot be converted to a OPC
Who will be the natural guardian of Hindu adopted minor son?
The adoptive father will be the natural guardian of the adopted minor son and after him, the mother. However, the custody of a minor who has not completed the age of five years shall ordinarily be with the mother.
Can Bank as secured creditor make application for direction to borrowers/guarantors to disclose their assets?
Yes, secured creditor may seek interim direction (at the time of filing of OA itself) from DRT against the borrowers/ guarantors to disclose their personal/other assets. DRT passes order to the said effect expedittiously.
What to do if the borrower is a partnership firm and the partnership deed does not contain the borrowing clause?
Refer the matter to Corporate Legal Group dealing officer, constitutional documents need to be modified to include the borrowing clause.
Can Debt Manager process lien marking on Company account wherein one of the Partner is one of the director in company against the outstanding dues of Partnership Firm?
No
What would amount to consent under the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR)? According to Article 4 of GDPR, consent of the data subject means any freely given, specific, informed and unambiguous indication of the data subjects wishes by which he or she, by a statement or by a clear affirmative action, signifies agreement to the processing of the personal data relating to him or her.
What if the physical possession is not delivered to the Purchaser  by the Authorized Officer after sale under SARFAESI Act, 2002?
The Authorized Officer is duty bound to deliver the physical possession of the enforced security, free from all encumbrances to the Purchaser.
If the sub-registrar refuses registration of any document, what is the recourse provided under the Registration Act, 1908?
If the sub-registrar has refused to register a document, then an appeal before the registrar (to whom the sub-registrar who refused to register the document is subordinate to) can be made within 30 days from the refusal order.
What is to be done if the Branch receives Notice from Goods and Service Tax (GST) authority? Do refer to e-circular no. 9125/8360 and follow the procedure as laid down therein for compliance with the directions in such notices. You may also get in touch with the Taxation team for further clarifications/assistance.
If a charge which requires registration under the Companies Act, 2013 is not registered, does it mean that the transaction is altogether void or the debt not recoverable?
No, it does not mean that the transaction is void or debt not recoverable. However, no charge created by the company shall be taken into account by the liquidator or any other creditor unless it is duly registered.
Why Infra Facility Manager (IFM) needs to provide Title search Report (TSR) to Legal Manager? Title search report is required to be sent to the Legal Manager to ascertain the genuineness of Title(Ownership) of the property belonging to a person who is executing Lease Deed with the Bank.
Which documents are to be verified to confirm the use of premises as commercial use?
a.Plan has to be approved by the Corporation for commercial purpose,   b. copy of Occupation Certificate(OC)/Completion Certificate(CC) . c. payment of  property taxes at commercial rate.
Whether Dishonour of a cheque due to stop payment is also covered under Section 138 of the NI Act and can Debt Manager file a complaint in such cases Under Section 138?
Yes. but substantial proof is required in this regards. 
If a cheque is returned due to its payment being stopped by the drawer, it will be necessary to prove that the drawer had sufficient funds in his account at the time of return of cheque and the stoppage was for some other justifiable reason
Can a One Person Company (OPC) be converted to a public company?
Yes, a One Person Company can be converted to a public company. In case the paid up share capital of a One Person Company exceeds fifty lakh rupees or its average annual turnover of immediately preceding three consecutive financial years exceeds two crore rupees, then the OPC has to mandatorily convert itself into private or public company.
Whether board resolution approving borrowings can be passed through video conferencing? Yes. Section 173 of the Act, read with section Rules 3 & 4 of the Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers) Rules, 2014 lay down the legal provisions with respect to holding Board meetings through video conferencing.
 Rule 4 of Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers) Rules, 2014 lays down certain matters which shall not be dealt with in any meeting held through video conferencing or other audio visual means. The same are as under: 
1 The approval of the annual financial statement; 
2 The approval of the Boards report; 
3 The approval of the prospectus; 
4 The Audit Committee meetings for consideration of financial statement including consolidated financial statement if any, to be approved by the board under sub-section (1) of section 134 of the Act; and 
5 The approval of the matter relating to amalgamation, merger, demerger, acquisition and takeover.
What is a one person company (OPC)?
An OPC is a company which has only one person as a member/shareholder and atleast one director.
Can a Branch issue a Balance Confirmation Certificate upon a request being submitted by a customer?
Yes. In such a case, the customer should visit personally or send bearer (the bearers' signature should have been attested by the account holder) to any branch and place a written request for issuance of Balance confirmation certificate and submit ID proof as per KYC documents. The process as laid down in e-Circular 9574 is laid down in this regard and the Certificate is to be issued as per the format provided in the said Circular.
Is it necessary that the date of purchase of stamp paper of a partnership deed must be prior or may coincide with the date of execution of the deed? Yes.
Can the Bank sub-lease its premises to Group Companies?
Yes, the Bank may sub-lease its premises to group companies subject to execution of a lease deed to record the terms of lease.
At the time of reconstitution of registered partnerships, do reconstituted partnership deeds require registration?
No upon any reconstitution while the said deed need not be registered once again, however, as per section 63 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932, the Registrar of Assurances must be notified by the partners of the firm regarding the reconstitution of the firm vide a signed intimation notice within 90 days of any such change in the partnership firm.
Can parties modify the provisions of Uniform Rules for Demand Guarantees (URDG) 758? Yes, parties may contractually modify/ opt out of any provision of URDG 758.
Is there any number restriction on acting as a nominee of an One Person Company (OPC)?
Yes, no person shall be eligible to become a nominee in more than one OPC.
Which version of Uniform Rules of Demand Guarantees (URDG) do we use, 1992(458) or 2010 (758)? If the guarantee text merely states that the guarantee is being governed by URDG, which version of URDG will apply?
We usually refer to the latest version i.e. 2010 revision of URDG (URDG 758). If any guarantee issued on or after 1st July, 2010 states that it is subject to URDG without specifying the version or publication number, the guarantee will be subject to URDG 758, 2010 revision as of March 7, 2019.
When is the certification of registration under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010 (FCRA) required to be renewed?
Every person who has been granted a certificate of registration for receiving foreign contribution is required to renew the same within 6 (six) months before the expiry of the period of the certificate.
What is the effect of acknowledgment of debt?
The limitation for initiating recover proceedings in a court of law extends to the original limitation period provided the acknowledgement has been taken within the original limitation period.
Where title deeds are held with other lenders or in consortium cases and timeline for security creation is granted, whether power of attorney for security creation is required to be obtained? No. In consortium cases, joint documents are executed, so a POA may not be required separately in favor of ICICI Bank, unless specifically required to be taken as part of documentation executed by the Lead Bank.
Can a Company be a sole proprietor? No.
What is to be done in case if the Infra Facility Manager (IFM) is in receipt of notice from Govt. authority/Municipal Corporation raising property tax related queries?
The IFM is required to do the following: a. Initially, have to check with the consultant that property tax is charged as per rate value or as per capital value. Once it is confirmed that it is proper, the IFM will have to pay the same if it is in Bank scope. Also, refer to the lease agreement for the relevant clause whereby the Bank may be authorized to pay the property tax.
What is the ingredient/condition for preferring the case before Lok Adalat?
Main condition of the Lok Adalat is that both parties in dispute should agree for settlement. The decision of the Lok Adalat is binding on the parties to the dispute and its order is capable of execution through legal process. No appeal lies against the order of the Lok Adalat.
Is CERSAI filing required to be done by a bank where the bank is an assignee under an assignment where there is transfer of security interest by way of the said assignment? Yes.
Can an NRO/NRE account be operated through a power of attorney holder/ mandate holder? Yes, the NRI can appoint a person resident in India to act as a power of attorney holder / mandate holder to operate the accounts.
What kind of data does a block store?
Block stores information about the transactions, say the date, time, amount and et el., person who entered into the transaction and on what platform/vendor and stores a unique hash that distinguishes different blocks.
What is to be done if a customer approaches the Branch for deletion of his/her name and signature?
Customer is required to visit any branch (base or non-base) personally and place the request for name and signature deletion along with the person whose name needs to be deleted. Please note that name and signature deletion can be done in joint account/ Term Deposit only. Single account cannot undergo name and signature deletion process. Process provided under e-Circular No. 9574 to be followed to carry out the name and signature deletion.
Can an Association of Persons/Body of Individuals open an account with the Bank?
An association of Persons/Body of Individuals can open an account only if they are registered as a 
Trust, Society, Section 25 company (incorporated under Companies Act, 1956) / Section 8 company (incorporated under Companies Act, 2013). The process laid down in e-Circular 13799 is to be followed in this regard. 
<a href="http://myecirculars.icicibankltd.com:84/ibankecircmainapp">Link to open E-Circular</a> Or 
Use below navigation path
Universe>E-Circulars>E-Circular Home>Quick Search>Enter Circular Number
In case the guarantor is not signing the renewal CAL, when the renewal is done on same terms, whether the same is acceptable?
In case of renewal in same terms, it is not mandatory for the CAL to be accepted by the guarantors/ third party security.
Whether a Requisition of Title (ROT) is compulsorily required to be attached to the TSR for accepting the TSR? No.
Is it necessary to obtain a non-disposal undertaking ('NDU') for shares from the shareholders of the borrower?
NDU will not be taken as a standard for every case. Only where such NDU is specifically stipulated in the term sheet, will such an NDU be required from the shareholders.
What is notional amount?
Notional amount refers to nominal or face amount of the financial instrument that is used to calculate payments made on that instrument. This amount generally does not change and is thus referred to as notional. For example, the notional amount in an interest rate swap trade would be the principal amount of the underlying loan.
Is a Power of Attorney (POA) necessary for handing over of title documents of a partnership firm? No, a certified copy of the partnership deed or certified copy of the resolution signed by all the partners of the partnership firm shall be required to be furnished based on which the branch should ascertain the authorized signatory who is empowered to collect the title deeds.  Detailed process laid down in e-Circular 9560 to be adhered to.
What kind of cryptography does blockchain use?
Blockchain uses public key cryptography or asymmetric cryptography.
In case if the interim compensation Under Section 138 NI Act complaint is allowed by the court, what is the limitation for payment for such interim compensation by customer?
As per Sec. 143A of NI (Amendment) Act, interim compensation should be paid within 60 days from the date of order or which can be further extended by Court upto 30 days. (Maximum period is 90 days).
What is the date of security creation in case of equitable mortgage?
Security creation date for equitable mortgages is the date on which the mortgagor deposits the title deeds.
What process is to be followed in case the sole nominee is no longer alive at the time of death of the deceased account holder?
The process laid down in e-Circular 9577 for settlement of accounts having no registered nominee is to be followed in this regard.
Should the details of authorized signatories of a party authorized to operate the escrow account(s) be captured in the escrow agreement?
Yes. The escrow agreement may have to be modified to reflect any changes in the authorized signatories in the future.
Can minor be a Karta in Hindu Undivided Family (HUF)?
Yes, minor can be Karta in HUF where father is expired. However, in such case the bank account is managed by the mother (member) of the HUF till the time the minor attains majority.
What if there is a mismatch in the list of Trustees/office bearers in the Trust Deed/Rules & Byelaws (list) with the current list provided by the Trust?
Such mismatch may arise as the Trust Deed/Rules & Bye-laws may have been made years back at the time of formation of the Trust/Association/Society/Club (TASC) and the Trustees/office bearers have changed thereafter from time to time. In such cases, the TASC must submit a proof of appointment of the Trustees/office bearers by either submitting the Change Report filed with the Registrar/competent authority or duly certified true copy of the Resolution for change in Trustees/office bearers along with the declaration in Annexure XI of e-Circular 13799.
A customer wishes to invest his foreign contribution amount into shares which have high risk of fluctuation. Is he permitted under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010 (FCRA) to invest in the same?
No. Investment in shares is identified as a speculative activity under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation Rules), 2011.
Does a limited liability partnership (LLP) require a registered office?
Yes, and the same is required to be specified in the incorporation document of the LLP.
What is Right to Information under the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR)?
Encapsulated in Articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR it requires any controller or processor to, inter-alia, tell individuals what data is being collected, how its' being used, how long it will be kept and whether it will be shared with any third parties.
What is the process to be followed by Debt Manager for initiating action/settlement proceedings on Against cases by delinquent borrowers?
Please refer DMSG/OG/140. Please co-ordinate with DSMG process team.
Can a deceased settlement claim be processed if the claimant cannot file the death certificate of the deceased account holder?
No, requirement of a death certificate cannot be waived under any circumstance.
What are the Uniform Rules for Demand Guarantees (URDG)?
An international set of rules produced by the International Chamber of Commerce governing the rights and obligations of parties under demand guarantees.
The current version of the URDG is URDG 758.
What is the stamp duty on Indemnity Bonds?
Please refer to the stamp duty ready reckoner available on DMS. The path for the same is as follows. Universe> Business Group> Corporate Centre> Corporate Legal Group > Home > Business Use > Reference Material.
What is to be done in case of receipt of a vacation notice from any other Bank/FI purporting to be the secured creditor in respect to the branch premises?
Upon receipt of the notice, the same is to be referred to the concerned IMSG team for ascertaining whether the proposed mortgage has indeed been created and the date of creation of such mortgage by the Lessor. When the mortgage was created prior to the lease deed/agreement, the reason behind the same not being in the knowledge of the Bank at the time of execution of the lease deed/agreement is to be ascertained. 
In case, the mortgage has been created subsequent to date of lease deed/agreement, then it is required to be checked and confirmed whether any No-objection Certificate were issued by the Bank.
Subsequent to such fact finding, in case, the mortgage has been created subsequent to execution of lease deed/agreement, a suitable reply may be drafted and routed through CLG for vetting. In other cases, the matter is to be referred to CLG for case specific action in order to protect the interests of the Bank.
Can a minor become a member/shareholder of a One Person Company (OPC)? No, a minor cannot become a member/shareholder of an OPC.
Whether Debt Manager is required to check None Performing Asset(NPA) status before sending Demand Notice?
Yes, account should be more than 90 Days Passed Default(DPD) and/or classified as None Performing Asset(NPA). No deviation is permissible.
Do External Commercial Borrowing (ECB) facility documents need to be initialed on all pages by the parties?
No, as the parties are situated across different geographies and the governing law is English Law there is no practise of initialling every page.
What to do when confirmation letter from security trustee or lead bank on holding original documents is not available?
Business Group to engage with Lead Bank. Security Trustee for issuance of Confirmation Letter on documents stored or obtained.
What is Principle of Data Minimization under GDPR?
According to this principle, only the data that is adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed should be collected. In other words, no more than the minimum amount of data should be kept for specific processing.
While preparing the MOE in enhancement cases, whether the sanction amount is required to be entered in the "Existing Assistance" column or the current outstanding amount?
The 'Existing Assistance' details are captured in Clause 2A of the First Schedule of the MOE. Here, the sanctioned facility amount, for which the security was created, shall be captured, and not the current outstanding. This understanding is applicable only when ICICI Banks standard documents are being executed.
What are the actions to be taken in case a cheque issued in favour of the Bank is returned on account of insufficient funds or payment stopped by drawer or account closure?
If a cheque issued in favour of the Bank is returned for a reason such as insufficient funds or payment stopped by drawer or account closure;  a notice may be issued within 30 days of the date of the return memo, following which the cheque issuer shall be given 15 days to pay the requisite amount to the Bank.
What is cryptography?
Cryptography is the method of encrypting and decrypting information through complex mathematics.
Whether Loan account should be classified as NPA before sending "Loan Recall Notice" (LRN)? 
Whether Debt Manager is required to check NPA status before sending LRN?
Yes, account should be more than 90 DPD. However, in exceptional cases, LRN can be issued after approval from Group Head is sought for such deviation. All the approvals sought for this purpose has to be recorded and maintained by Debt manager for future reference.
What is the stamp duty on facility agreement in Madhya Pradesh?
0.5% of the amount subject to maximum of INR 10 lacs (as on January 30, 2019).
What process should be adopted in case the banking operation/account operation mandate clause is not provided in the trust deed?
In such cases, the mode of operations (MOP) mentioned in the Resolution obtained from the Trust, must specify the banking operation / account operation mandate. Please refer to the process laid down in e-Circular 13799 in this regard.
Can an NBFC be a partner in a partnership firm or an LLP? No.
What is the principle of storage limitation under the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR)? According to this principle, contained in Article 5 of the General Data Protection Regulations, personal data must be kept in a form which permits identification of data subjects for no longer than is necessary for the purposes for which the personal data are processed.
Can parties modify the provisions of URDG 758?
Yes, parties may contractually modify/ opt out of any provision of URDG 758.
Can documents with missing initials/signature on pages be accepted? No, rectification to be done in consultation with the Business Group.
What should the Infra Facility Manager(IFM) do in case the leased premises are mortgaged with any Bank and/or Financial Institution? Whether No Objection Certificate(NOC) from the mortgagee bank is required to be taken by IIFM?
Yes, if the premises proposed to be taken is mortgaged to any Bank/Institution, Infra Facility Manager (IFM) should obtain No Objection Ceritificate(NOC) from the mortgagee Bank/Institution must be obtained.
Where are the detailed terms governing the pledge of dematerialized shares between the lender and the pledgor drawn up?
Pledgor shall execute a pledge agreement in favour of the lender/ security trustee which shall contain the detailed terms governing the transaction. However, please note that mere execution of share pledge agreement alone (i.e. without recording pledge with the Depository in the prescribed manner) cannot be treated as pledge creation.
What is the timeline in Maharashtra for stamping any instrument executed in Maharashtra or outside Maharashtra chargeable with stamp duty?
Any instrument executed in Maharashtra should be stamped before or at the time of execution or immediately thereafter or on the next working day following the day of execution. However, any instrument chargeable with duty executed out of Maharashtra may be stamped within three (3) months after it has been first received in Maharashtra.
Whether the salary of the employee of the bank can be attached on non-compliance of notice?
Yes. Under section 8F of the EPF Act, EPFO may attach the salary of the employee of the Bank.
Can a document be considered properly Notarized, if the execution date and the Notarized date are different?
Branch to note that Notarization testifies and verifies the execution and therefore has to be on the same day.
What is the time period for filing CHG-1 form?
CHG-1 Form shall be filed with the Registrar within 30 days of creation of charge.
What should be done if the joint holders of a locker facility approach the bank for deletion of name of a Joint Holder?
The Branch should delete the name of the joint holder provided all the hirers authorize such name deletion and the procedure as laid down in e-Circular no. 9564 is followed.
What is the procedure to be followed by Debt Manager for disposal of the property to recover dues under SARFAESI Act, 2002?
Valuation of the property is carried out through our empanelled valuer which would be the Reserve price below which the property cannot be sold. Sale Notice of 30 days is issued to the borrower giving him 30 days time to pay the o/s dues before sale of his property. Subsequent to Sale Notice, Auction Notice is published in two local newspapers giving details such as inspection date, particulars of property, reserve price etc. In case of second time sale, the auction notice time line will be 15 days. But notice about sale of property for second time to borrowers will be 30 days.
1.   On receipt of sealed bids from prospective buyers, and the bids are opened. Those bids which are lower than the reserve price should be rejected. Only the bids which are higher than the reserved price would qualify and the highest bid would be accepted. Once the bid is accepted 25% amount of such  price shall be paid as an Earnest Money Deposit(EMD) by the bidder to the bank The Purchaser will have to immediately deposit 25% of the amount and the remaining 75% of the amount should be made within 15 days of confirmation of sale of the immovable property or in such extended period as may be agreed upon in writing between the purchaser and the secured creditor but in any case not exceeding three months. In the event, the Purchaser not paying the full amount within the prescribed time, the Earnest Money can stand forfeited and the property or any part thereof can be put to sale again. 
In case bids are not received then fresh auction has to be conducted and bids are called for. Despite conducting the auction if bids are not received then the bank has now been allowed to purchase the said asset at reserve price and sell the same in the open market within 7 years from such purchase. Once the property is sold off the highest bidder and the authorized officer has to issue a sale certificate (as per the format in the act) and the same shall be registered the same before the SRO of the particular area where the property is situated.
It is very important to note that where physical / notional possession of any charged assets are to be taken under SARFAESI Act, 2002, the Authorized officer of the Bank MUST be present at the site and sign all the  Punchnama and other documents at the site and one copy must be handed over to the Local Police Station.
What is to be done if, for the purposes of handover of title documents, the partnership deed or resolution of a partnership firm does not specifically state that the title documents of the firm may be collected by the authorized signatory?
If the partnership deed or resolution contains a clause to the effect that the authorized signatory can do all such acts as maybe necessary for the purpose of the facility, the title documents may be handed over to such authorized signatory. Detailed process laid down in e-Circular 9560 to be adhered to.
Can a HUF be a partner of a partnership firm? No.
What can be forfeited in case of failure of the payment of bid amount by the successful bidder? SARFAESI Auction Sale- Earnest Money Deposit(EMD) of 25% can only be forfeited in case of failure by the successful bidder to pay the balance 75% within stipulate time of confirmation of sale.
Whether acknowledgment of time barred debt revives period of limitation? No.
Can a common guarantee deed be executed by all the guarantors for a common facility, where there are multiple personal guarantors/corporate guarantors?
One common guarantee deed can be executed by all the personal guarantors and another common guarantee deed can be executed by the corporate guarantors. Stamp duty payable shall be as per the stamp act prevailing in that State.
If Personal Guarantee and Corporate Guarantee is stipulated for a facility, can the Personal Guarantor and Corporate Guarantor execute a single document?
Usually no. But a call may be taken on a case to case basis by Corporate Legal Group.
Do we need to obtain a guarantee from a third party security provider? Yes, unless specifically waived by Corporate Legal Group.
Can Debt Manager process lien marking on Proprietorship Savings/ Current Account of partners held in proprietorship name against the outstanding dues of Partnership firm? Yes
Is there any timeline provided for taking Letter Acknowledging Debt (LAD)?
A Letter Acknowledging Debt (LAD) should be taken within 3 years from date of the facility agreement or the date of the previous LAD whichever is later
Can a common BR for account opening and for sanction of credit facilities be passed by a borrower?
Board resolutions shall be specific to the purpose as far as possible and in standard format of the Bank. Currently, separate board resolutions are required to be passed by the Board of Directors of a borrower. While it is possible that resolutions for both purposes may be combined, the essential components of both standard resolutions are required to be included.
Who is a minor?
A person who has not completed 18 (eighteen) years of age is a minor.
What is the meaning of term used as Transferor/ Transferee in Lease Deed?
In a Lease Deed, Transferor is called the Lessor and Transferee is called as the Lessee.
What process is to be followed in case the CA Certificate for 281(1)(ii) mentions disputed tax liabilities?
As per the current process followed in ICICI Bank, in every transaction, the security provider is required to furnish, before disbursement, Statutory Auditor/ Chartered Accountants certificate stating nil tax liability in the format specified by ICICI Bank. If the said certificate specifies any pending tax proceeding or any disputed tax liability of the security provider towards Income Tax Department, then the security provider is required to fulfill any of the following conditions: a) furnish a fixed deposit (FD) to the extent of the disputed tax liability OR b) furnish Statutory Auditor or Chartered Accountant certificate that the security provider has made adequate provision in its accounts for meeting the disputed tax liability when it crystalises OR c) furnish an 
Undertaking-cum-Indemnity from the Managing Director of the security provider that the security provider shall meet the disputed tax liability when it crystalises and will keep the bank indemnified against possible tax claims on secured assets prior to disbursement.
Is submission of copy of PAN card compulsory for the purpose of account opening for Private Trusts?
Yes. The process laid down in e-Circular 13799 is to be followed.
Do you need Loan Registration Number (LRN) for Foreign Currency Term Loan (FCTL)? No, its only applicable for External Commercial Borrowing(ECB).
Can an individual have other deposits with the Bank where one holds Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account (BSBDA)?
Yes, a customer can have can have Term/Fixed Deposit, Recurring Deposit etc., accounts in the bank where one holds Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account (BSBDA).
What is the Jurisdiction to file Under Sec. 138 NI Act cheque bounce complaint?
"The complaint can be filed before the court having jurisdiction over the branch where bank maintains their collection account. 
For example, if Customer is based at Sangli and Bank have a collection account in Kolhapur. You receive cheque in Sangli. You present your cheque in Kolhapur in the branch where Bank has collection account. Now, if this cheque is dishonoured, then the cheque bounce case can be filed only in Kolhapur in the court which has jurisdiction over the area where your collection account bank branch is located.
"
Can a Board Resolution older than 6 months be accepted for current account opening of a company?
Yes, provided the Board Resolution is signed, acknowledged and revalidated as True & Updated by key managerial personnel of the company or by a person authorized to sign the certified copy of the Board Resolution.
Is modification of charge required to be registered under the Companies Act, 2013 if there is change in loan amounts with or without additional security?
Yes. Modification of charge has to be done in case there is an enhancement in the loan amounts, whether with or without additional security. In case of reduction of loan amount, modification of charge in not mandatory, unless requested by the Borrower. CHG-I can be modified on the basis of an NOC and/or  amendment documents (for the cases of enhancement), as the case may be.
In case the article/document description mentioned in the stamp paper is incorrect, can the document be accepted?
The article/description should be correctly captured. If the article/description is incorrectly captured, but adequate stamp duty has been paid, as per the relevant stamp acts, then the document may be accepted.
What is to be done if the Customer is deceased and a family member has approached the Branch requesting to settle the claims of deposit account in their favor?
Upon receipt of a deceased claim settlement request, the Branch must first mark a debit freeze on the account of the deceased customer and request the claimant to furnish a copy of the death certificate along with all other requisite documents as mentioned in e-circular no. 9577.
Can individuals of Pakistani and Bangladeshi nationality open a bank account with the Bank?
Yes, such individuals may open accounts with prior approval of the Reserve Bank of India. However, any citizen of the two countries being a Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Jain, Parsi and Christian, residing in India and who has been granted long term visa (LTV) or whose application for LTV is under consideration, can open only one NRO account subject to Foreign Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016. The branch may get in touch with concerned Branch Process Manager and Compliance Team in this respect.
What is a foreign source under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act, 2010 (FCRA)?
As per clause 2(j) of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act, a foreign source includes: 
(i) the Government of any foreign country or territory and any agency of such Government
(ii) any international agency, not being the United Nations or any of its specialised agencies, the World Bank, International Monetary Fund or such other agency as the Central Government may, by notification, specify in this behalf
(iii) a foreign company
(iv) a corporation, not being a foreign company, incorporated in a foreign country or territory
(v) a multi-national corporation referred to in sub-clause (iv) of clause (g)
(vi) a company within the meaning of the Companies Act, 1956(1 of 1956), and more than one-half of the nominal value of its share capital is held, either singly or in the aggregate, by one or more of the following, namely
(A) the Government of a foreign country or territory
(B) the citizens of a foreign country or territory
(C) corporations incorporated in a foreign country or territory
(D) trusts, societies or other associations of individuals (whether incorporated or not), formed or registered in a foreign country or territory (E) foreign company
(vii) a trade union in any foreign country or territory, whether or not registered in such foreign country or territory
(viii) a foreign trust or a foreign foundation, by whatever name called, or such trust or foundation mainly financed by a foreign country or territory
(ix) a society, club or other association of individuals formed or registered outside India(x) a citizen of a foreign country
Under which circumstances can a new estate account in the name of the deceased be opened? For individual and sole proprietorship accounts, a new estate account can be opened in the name of the deceased customer in accordance with the process laid down in e-Circular 9577.
What is the eligibility criteria for availing an add-on credit card?
Add-on credit cards can be provided only to immediate relatives/ family of the primary credit card holder. Eg. spouse, children, mother, father. Please refer to the Credit Cards Product team for further assistance.
What is the mechanism in case a document has not been registered within the timeline mentioned under the Registration Act, 1908?
If the document, not presented for registration within the timeline owing to urgent necessity or unavoidable accident, is presented within 4 months of the expiry of the original timeline, the registrar may accept the document for registration after payment of penalty not exceeding 10 times the amount of the proper registration fees.
Whether Probate of a Will is mandatory?
Probating of the Will should be insisted upon in the case of Will made by any Hindu, Buddhist, Sikh or Jain where the Wills are made in the Presidency towns i.e Chennai, Kolkata, Mumbai. Probate is not mandatory in case of Wills that are made outside these Presidency towns or in the case of Muslims and Indian Christians.
Can the same person certify the Board Resolution and sign the facility documents? No, as a practise we do not allow self certification.
How should the Consent Terms be filed in Civil Suit/ DRT Original Application(OA) in case of settlement by Debt Manager?
Customer acknowledged copy of settlement letter to be provided to Legal Manager by Debt 
Manager for preparing the Consent terms which will be filed in court for obtaining "Consent 
Decree". Customer presence in court to be facilitated for recording of customer statement by Debt Manager. In case, if Customer refuses to come forward for filing the consent terms., the case should continue irrespective of regularization of account. This is to duly informed to customer by Debt Manager.
Is it necessary to obtain a management undertaking?
A management undertaking will not be taken as a standard for every case. It will be taken on a case specific basis where it is specifically stipulated as a part of the sanction.
Is stamp duty payable on all instruments/documents relating to transfer of immovable property? On a general basis, it may be noted that except transfers by will, transfer documents including agreements to sell, conveyance deed, gift deed, mortgage deed, exchange deed, deed of partition, power of attorneys, leave and licence agreement, agreement of tenancy, lease deeds, power of attorney to sell for consideration, etc. have to be properly stamped before registration, as applicable. The above is subject to State-specific legal requirements.
How is the amount recovered under SARFAESI to be dealt with by Debt Manager?
Where any action has been taken against a borrower under Sec. 13(4) of the SARFAESI Act, all costs, charges and expenses believed to be completely incurred by the Bank shall be recoverable from the borrower and the money which  received by the Bank should be held in trust so as to be applied firstly towards payment of such costs, charges and expenses and secondly, in discharge of the dues of the Bank, unless there is any contract providing an exception. The money remaining after all such payments shall be paid to the person entitled thereto in accordance with his rights and interests.
How possession should be taken by authorized officer after Chief Metropolitan Magistrate(CMM)/ District Magistrate(DM) Order under Section 14 of SARFAESI Act, 2002?
Court registrar along with police personnel will accompany Authorized Officer of Bank and take forceful possession of the property and shall take the inventory of the articles lying in the property, seal the property and handover the keys to the authorized officer of the bank who should be present at the site. The possession can be taken from the borrower, tenant or even third party residing in the premises depending upon the title to the property and ensuring that there is no stay or dispute in respect of the said property.
Are the rights under leave and license transferrable?
No. Such rights are not transferrable unless agreed to in writing by the parties in the leave and license agreement.
What action is to be taken under SARFAESI Act, 2002 on receivables to borrower?
Authorized officer may require at any time, by notice in writing to any person who has acquired any of the secured assets from the borrower and from whom any money is due or may become due to the borrower, to pay the secured creditor, so much of the money as is sufficient to pay the secured debt.
Who can be a designated partner of a limited liability partnership (LLP)?
Every limited liability partnership shall have at least two designated partners who are individuals and at least one of them shall be a resident in India.
In case of a limited liability partnership in which all the partners are bodies corporate or in which one or more partners are individuals and bodies corporate, at least two individuals who are partners of such limited liability partnership or nominees of such bodies corporate shall act as designated partners.
Whether POA for mortgage of immovable property needs to be registered in Maharashtra? As per Section 17 of the Registration (Maharashtra Amendment) Act, 2010, POA for mortgage of immovable property needs to be compulsorily registered.
If the mortgage deed covers several properties, each situate in different districts, where is the mortgage deed required to be registered?
The mortgage deed is required to be registered in each of the districts in which each of the properties are situate.
What is Right to Erasure under GDPR?
Also known as the Right to be Forgotten, individuals have a right to request for erasure of their data in certain circumstances, such as when the data is no longer necessary, or when the data was unlawfully processed
Is modification of charge required to be registered under the Companies Act, 2013 if there is change in list of assets securing a facility?
Yes. If the assets are owned by a company, then modification of charge has to be done.
What is the stamp duty on Agreement relating to deposit of title deeds?
0.5% of the amount secured subject to maximum of Rs 10 Lacs (as on January 30, 2019).
What is to be done when an online copy of the death certificate is submitted by the claimant of a deceased account holder?
In case of an online copy of the death certificate being submitted, a copy of the same shall be required to be downloaded and printed from the relevant government website after due verification. Such copy shall be required to be self-attested by the claimant/survivor as a true copy and the same shall be scanned for attachment with the appropriate SR. The process laid down in e-Circular 9577 shall be required to be followed in this respect.
Is there any difference in payment of stamp duty for Lease Deed and Leave and License Agreement?
The amount payable towards stamp duty is generally more for a Lease Agreement as compared to a Leave and License agreement.
What is the procedure if the company only has two directors and no regular company secretary?
In case of a company having Board strength of only 2 Directors and not having regular Company 
Secretary in their rolls, neither Director can act as Company Secretary and the Certified Copy of 
Board Resolution shall be accompanied by a certificate from a practicing Company Secretary (format available on DMS link 
-http://universe.icicibankltd.com/businessgroups/legal/HTMLs/dms_misc.htm#reso). The said certificate shall certify the conduct of the Board Meeting and passing of the Resolution based on examination of secretarial records of the Company.
What is the difference between a judicial and non-judicial stamp paper?
Judicial stamp paper is used for court related purposes such as payment of court fee and nonjudicial stamp paper is used for payment of stamp duty while execution of legal documents.
Where do Debt Manager get format for issuing notice Under Sec. 138 NI Act? Please co-ordinate for the relevant formats with DSMG Compliance Team.
Whether the NOA shall be executed each time LAD is taken irrespective of no change in the sanctioned terms?
No, the requirement of a Note of Amendment or NOA has been discontinued.
What if the customer makes payment after issuance of Recovery certificate?
If Original Application (OA) has been disposed off and Recovery Certificate(RC) has been issued and the borrowers pays 25% of the said RC amount, then DRT will give 30 days time to the borrowers to pay rest 75% of the said RC amount. During the said 30 days, there shall be interim stay against all action of bank/arc. However, on failure to make such balance payment within the said 30 days, no extension will be granted by DRT.
What action should be taken when a branch receives a vacation order / stay order / High Court order overturning the notice issued by the tax authorities prior to the due date of payment by the Bank? The vacation order should be sent to taxation team for their views in complying with the order of the Court. Branch may also refer e-circular no. 9125 and follow the procedure specified therein.
What is an instrument under the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958?
Instrument means any document by which any right or liability is, or purports to be, created, transferred, limited, extended, extinguished or recorded but does not include a bill of exchange, cheque, promissory note, bill of lading, letter of credit, policy of insurance, transfer of share, debenture, proxy and receipt.
Can a security interest provided by a third party be enforced under SARFAESI?
Yes, a person who has provided any mortgage or pledge as security for the financial assistance granted by any bank shall fall under the definition of "borrower" for the purposes of taking any action under SARFAESI.
Who can be a guardian for a Minor?
Father and Mother are the Natural Guardian of a Hindu/Christian minor child. In case of a Muslim, a Mother cannot be a Guardian unless appointed by a Court.
What is the criteria for publication of notices under SARFAESI Act, 2002?
Any notice if not served, has to be published in two newspapers viz., one in english and other in vernacular language having sufficient circulation in the locality where the property is situated and also, notices must be pasted on door/conspicuous of part the property.
Can Debt Manager issue SPDC (Security Post Dated Cheque) cheque/NACH bounce notice prior to issuance of LRN?
No, Loan recall Notice (LRN) is to be sent in all cases before initiating a case where the SPDC/NACH Mandate will be retrieved and presented for clearance
In case the lessor is an HUF what should be kept in mind prior to entering into a Lease arrangement?
A Karta may execute a Lease Deed only if he has a specific Power of Attorney from all the coparceners/members of the HUF authorizing him to execute the Lease Deed. In case, the same is not available, under such circumstances, a Lease Deed shall be required to be signed by all members/coparceners of the HUF.
Where should the Branch refer to get details of Bank empanelled Advocates?
Please visit Corporate Legal Group DMS for approved Panel of Advocates and their contact numbers. Before assigning any work to such Advocates, branch to take necessary approvals in consultation with local legal team.
Can Security Interest be created on agricultural property?
Yes. However, the secured creditor cannot enforce such security due to a statutory bar carved out under Section 31(i) of the SARFAESI Act, 2002. 
<a href="http://myecirculars.icicibankltd.com:84/ibankecircmainapp">Link to open E-Circular</a> Or 
Use below navigation path
Universe>E-Circulars>E-Circular Home>Quick Search>Enter Circular Number
Is an affidavit to be filed in the court, required to be notarised?
Yes, any affidavit being filed in a court of law is required to be notarized prior to filing.
If the mortgage deed covers several properties, each situated in different districts, where is the mortgage deed required to be registered?
No, if the mortgaged property falls within more than one district, the mortgage deed needs to be registered with any one Registrar and the registering Registrar shall forward a copy thereof and the endorsement and certificate (if any) thereon, together with copy of the map or plan (if any), to every registrar of the district where the mortgage property is situated.  The Registrar on receiving the same shall file in his Book No. 1 the copy of the document and the copy of the map or plan (if any), and shall forward a memorandum of the document to each of the Sub-Registrars subordinate to him within whose sub-district any part of such property is situate; and every Sub-Registrar receiving such memorandum shall file in his Book No. 1.
Whether a Trust or a Trustee can become a partner in LLP?
The LLP Act permits a body corporate to become a partner of a LLP. In this context, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs by way of its General Circular No. 37/2014 dated October 14, 2014 has further clarified that a trustee of a Real Estate Investment Trust or an Infrastructure Investment Trust or such other trusts set up under the regulations prescribed under the Securities & Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 can become a partner of an LLP as such entities are in the nature of a body corporate.
Who can issue Title Search Report (TSR)?
Only counsels who are empanelled by ICICI Bank can issue TSR. The list of the counsels is available on the DMS.
In case if a mismatch in the name of the deceased customer specified in the death certificate and updated records of the Bank/I-Core, what process is to be followed?
The BM may recommend for deviation approval to RH through i-process adhering to the guidelines laid down in e-Circular 9577.
<a href="http://myecirculars.icicibankltd.com:84/ibankecircmainapp">Link to open E-Circular</a> Or 
Use below navigation path
Universe>E-Circulars>E-Circular Home>Quick Search>Enter Circular Number
What is to be done if a request is received from other bank for closure of the account where our Bank has not obtained No Objection Certificate(NOC) from the lender Bank?
Branch shall verify whether the account in question with ICICI Bank was opened before or after the financial facility was provided by other Bank. Did the customer provide NOC of other Bank with whom he is enjoying the credit facility. If no, send the attached letter to other Bank seeking details of financial assistance offered by them. For further clarification, reach out to Central Current Account Product Team / Relationship Manager.
Do we have to modify CHG - 1, in case CHG - 1 does not contain all the assets being charged as per description?
Yes. CHG -1 has to capture details of all the assets provided as security by that company.
Do external commercial borrowing (ECB) facility documents need to be stamped?
No, unless the facility document has been made subject to Indian laws and the documents are being brought in India, the documents are not required to be stamped.
Whether a corporate guarantee needs to be mandatorily registered under the Registration Act, 1908?
No
Can a Hindu Undivided Family (HUF) be a partner in a partnership firm?
No, a Hindu Undivided Family (HUF) cannot be a partner in a partnership firm.
Does Section 185 of the Companies Act, 2013 apply when security/guarantee is provided by an individual or a partnership firm?
No
Does modifications / alteration of terms in a Deed of Partnership, duly registered with the Registrar of Assurance, shall be required to be effected through a registered deed?
Yes. In cases where the deed of partnership has been registered with the Registrar of Assurances or Sub-Registrar only, any amendment thereto shall also be required to be registered to avoid discrepancies between the actual situation viz-a-viz the records of the concerned Sub-Registrar. 
<a href="http://myecirculars.icicibankltd.com:84/ibankecircmainapp">Link to open E-Circular</a> Or 
Use below navigation path
Universe>E-Circulars>E-Circular Home>Quick Search>Enter Circular Number
Which all Addresses to be mentioned in Loan Recall Notice(LRN) by Debt Manager? Loan Recall Notice(LRN) is to be addressed on all available addresses of the borrower/coborrower/guarantor/mortgagor as per facility documents. Format and other requisites are available with DSMG Process team/DSMG LPO Team.
Can ICICI Bank register the charge created in its favour under the Companies Act, 2013 in the event the security provider company is not registering the security within the timelines provided therein?
Yes, where a company fails to register the charge within the period of thirty days, the Bank in whose favor the charge is created may apply to the Registrar for registration of the charge along with the instrument of creation of the charge.
Branch has received a Right to Information (RTI) notice, asking the Bank to furnish certain information about Customer / Bank Internal process. Can the same be shared?
No. Right To Information (RTI) does not apply to Private Sector Banks like ICICI Bank. Branch may also return original Postal Order to the requestor. Draft response enclosed.
In case the request is made by the bank customer and information is asked for his own account then branch may ask customer to visit the branch and make a separate request to get his/her own account details.
When is a Power of Attorney (POA) for security creation required to be obtained?
A power of attorney is required to be obtained in cases where a timeline for creation of security is provided, and should be obtained from the owners of the assets with respect to which such a timeline is being provided.  This should be executed in the jurisdiction in which the FA is being executed.
It is presently only required to be obtained in the states where POA is taken as per the practice followed across States as per the CMOG checklist. Waiver for obtaining a POA should be taken from the zonal business head.
Is there a requirement for witness in a 'Will'?
Yes, a Will is necessarily required to be witnessed at the time of execution
Is the LC issuing bank obligated to accept a presentation beyond its banking hours? No. An LC issuing bank or a nominated bank has no obligation to accept a presentation of documents under a letter of credit outside of its banking hours.
What is the stamp duty payable on deed or instrument (also may be referred to as deed of settlement) executed for conversion from other business structures to LLP or vice versa?
Since stamp duty is the subject reserved for the states, the LLP Act does not contain any provision for treatment of stamp duty issues. The stamp duty payable will depend upon the relevant stamp act prescribed by the state government/union territory.
Can Branch issue a Solvency Certificate to the Customer?
The Branch may issue a balance confirmation certificate to the customer as per the standard format of vetted letters/certificates available in Universe, however cannot confirm or issue any Solvency Certificate to a customer.
What action is to be taken when a branch receives a Notice from Income Tax Authority in relation to accounts of customers held with the Bank?
Branch to ensure compliance with the instructions as mentioned in the notice. However, before compliance also check if the customer has any loan account or any overdraft account and the relationship manager must be duly contacted. Further send the Notice to be shared with the Taxation team for resolution. Refer e-circular No. 8360/9125 and follow the process as laid down including raising Service Request (SR) as specified.
Can a bank claim under an insurance policy which is hypothecated to the bank by the borrower or where the bank is the first loss payee?
No, an insurance policy has to be assigned in favour of the bank for a bank to lodge a claim directly with the insurance company.
In case of a joint savings account, wherein the mode of operation (MOP) is either or survivor, can a freeze be removed in the account, based on instructions received from one of the account holders? No. Removal of freeze may be processed only upon receipt of joint instructions from all the account holders. The process laid down in e-Circular No. 9574 shall be required to be followed in this respect.
Is an Standby Letter of Credit (SBLC) revocable?
An SBLC issued under UCP 600 is irrevocable even if it does not specifically state so.
What process is to be followed for handover of original property documents upon closure of loan? The process for handover of original documents has been detailed in E-Circular - 9560.
What is the stamp duty on corporate guarantees in Madhya Pradesh? INR 1000 (as on January 30, 2019).
What is the penalty for executing instrument not duly stamped?
As per the provision of Section 59 of the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958, any person who, with the intention to evade the stamp duty, executes or signs any instruments chargeable with stamp duty, without the same being duly stamped, shall on conviction, be punished with rigorous imprisonment for term which shall not be less than one month but which may be extended upto six months and fine upto INR 5000/-. The Section 67 and 68 of the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958, empowers the authorities to enter upon any premises and to inspect and impound/seize the documents which are not duly stamped and burden is casted upon every public officer to assist the authorities in detection of evasion. Section 34 of the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958, provides a penalty of 2% per month of the deficient portion of the stamp duty for every month or part thereof, from the date of execution of the instrument, subject to a maximum of 4 times the deficient portion of duty.
Is Infra Facility Manager(IFM) required to take a fresh Title Search Report (TSR) in case if the existing Lease Deed is expired and is due for renewal?
Yes, a fresh TSR or in the alternate an addendum to the earlier TSR must be conducted to safeguard the interests of the Bank.
What is to be done in case of refusal by the borrower while taking possession under section 13(4) SARFAESI Act, 2002?
Notice is issued to the borrower asking for handover of peaceful possession of the property. In case the borrower/any person refuses to give the possession, then the possession notice as per the format prescribed in the Act has to be pasted on the door of the property and the same has to be published in the newspapers within 7 days from such possession.
What process to be followed for e-storage of copy of Receiver Order (RO) and Permission to Sale (PTS) received from Courts?
DSMG/OG/162 is to be referred.
What is to be done if the customer is deceased and the spouse/wife has approached the Branch with locker keys and wants to know what articles are kept in locker/access the locker?
In the event of death of the customer, the Bank shall not permit the legal heirs to inspect the contents of the locker unless the legal heirs furnish specific directions from a competent court of law upon the branch, permitting the legal heir(s) of the customer to inspect the contents of the locker. In absence of the same, the branch ought to sensitize the legal heirs of the deceased customer to file a claim with the bank and such claims may be processed as per the processes laid down in e-Circular 9564 and 9577.
What are the restrictions in respect of minimum and maximum number of partners in an LLP? A minimum of two partners will be required for formation of an LLP. There is no limit on the maximum number of partners. However, there should be at least two designated partners.
In case of difference between the names/dates mentioned on the trust deed, registration certificate and PAN Card, which date should be considered for the purposes of account opening? Many times there maybe difference between the names/dates mentioned on the Trust Deed, 
Registration Certificate, PAN Card. The account should be opened in the name as appearing in the Registration Certificate and the Date of Incorporation as mentioned on the Registration Certificate should be considered for account opening.
In case of revocation of a POA what process shall be required to be followed?
While revoking the POA, in addition to public notice, customer should notify the Bank regarding the revoking of the POA. During the revocation, the branch official should ensure the date and time of acceptance of the request is mentioned on the request letter and also on the acknowledgment provided to the customer. 
<a href="http://myecirculars.icicibankltd.com:84/ibankecircmainapp">Link to open E-Circular</a> Or 
Use below navigation path
Universe>E-Circulars>E-Circular Home>Quick Search>Enter Circular Number
What is the stamp duty on financial guarantee and performance guarantee, in Maharashtra?
a. Financial guarantee: 0.1% if the BG amount is upto Rs.10 lakhs, or 0.2% if the bank guarantee amount is above Rs.10 lakhs; and
b. Performance guarantee: Rs 100
 NOTE: Please ensure that the ready reckoner is referred to prior to assessing the stamp duty payable. The path for the same is as follows. Universe> Business Group> Corporate Centre> Corporate Legal Group > Home > Business Use > Reference Material.
What is NOI or Notice of Intimation?
An NOI or Notice of Intimation is an instrument required to be filed by a mortgagor once an equitable mortgage/ mortgage by deposit of title deeds has been created over an immoveable property. The NOI is filed before the Registrar or Sub-Registrar within whose jurisdiction the property is located and is a State-specific statutory requirement that is required to be complied with by the mortgagor, within 30 days from the date of creation of mortgage (no timeline extension is permitted). This requirement is presently applicable to equitable mortgages created over properties in states such as Maharashtra, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh.
What are the maximum number of directors in an OPC? An OPC can have a maximum of fifteen (15) directors.
What are the instruments on which Central Government can only prescribe stamp duty? Central Government can fix stamp duty in respect of the following instruments: Bill of Exchange;
Bill of Lading;
Debenture;
Letter of Credit;
Policy of Insurance;
Promissory Note;
Proxy;
Receipt;
Transfer
For the aforesaid instruments, the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 shall apply.
What is Principle of Confidentiality and Integrity under GDPR?
According to this principle, data should be processed in a manner that ensures appropriate security of the personal data including protection against unlawful processing or accidental loss, destruction or damage.
What are the maximum number of directors in a one person company (OPC)? An OPC can have a maximum of fifteen (15) directors.
Who is a pledgor and pledgee?
A pledgor is a person who pledges an asset as security and the pledgee is the person in whose favour the pledge is created.
Can an NBFC be a partner in a partnership firm or a Limited Liability Partnership (LLP)?
No
What are the different modes of recovery which can be taken upon issuance of Recovery Certificate by Recovery Officer of Debt Recovery Tribunal
Sale of Secured asset, personal asset, attachment of bank accounts, attachment of receivables and detention of defaulting Borrower in prison.
What is "Loan Recall Notice" (LRN)? How Debt Manager can issue  "Loan Recall Notice" (LRN)? LRN is "Loan Recall Notice" by which entire loan is recalled & become fully payable, and it is to be addressed on all available addresses of the borrower(s), co-borrower(s) and guarantor(s) as per facility documents post classification of account as NPA or in the Event of Default. In case if Debt 
Manager require to send it then Format and other requisites are available with DSMG Process team.
Are notices received from Anti-Corruption Bureau seeking information required to be complied with?
Such notices are required to be shared with the FCPG team for guidance and resolution.
Can we agree to receive instructions from parties for operation of escrow account(s) via email? Yes, if an e-mail indemnity clause has been captured in the escrow agreement.
Post execution of lease deed, what are the documents which are required to be sent to Rent team along with check list by the Infra Facility Manager(IFM)?
The IFM is required to send to the Rent Team the following documents with checklist: a. Original lease deed. b. Original Title Search Report (TSR) c. Title Search Report (TSR) clearance mail from Corporate Legal Group. d. Deviation approval taken, if any. e.  No Objection Certificate from Society/CIDCO/Mortgagee bank. f. Area Declaration g. Premises Commitee(PC) letter h. Original RTGS/NEFT mandate form along with cancelled cheque.
What is the quantum of approval required for lenders to undertake SARFAESI action over a particular common security? Is the ranking of lenders over a particular common security relevant for giving approval for an action under SARFAESI?
In case of financing by multiple lenders with a specific property as common security, approval of 
60% of lenders by value of the amounts outstanding is required for taking any action under SARFAESI. However, the ranking of lenders over a particular security is not relevant for providing the aforesaid approval.
What is the stamp duty payable on deed of partnership for LLP?
Since stamp duty is the subject reserved for the states, the LLP Act does not contain any provision for treatment of stamp duty issues. The stamp duty payable will depend upon the relevant stamp act prescribed by the state government/union territory.
Can we accept lease agreement that is not duly stamped and registered? No.
Can there be refund of Stamp duty in case if the Stamp paper is unused or mutilated?
Yes, refund can be claimed under section 47 of the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958. However such claim can be made to the Collector of Stamps within a period of 6 months from the date of purchase of stamps.
Is an ROC Certificate necessary to be obtained for security perfection after filing CHG-1 form, or just the filing of CHG-1 will suffice?
Yes, ROC Certificate is to be obtained necessarily for security perfection.
What are the documents required for filing Civil Suits for recovery of dues to be handed over to Legal Manager by Debt Manager?
Documents required for filing Civil Suit for recovery of dues -
1.  Application form, Sanction letter, Loan Agreement including guarantee, if any including other loan documents which has been executed by the borrower. 2.  Statement of accounts to substantiate the liability 3. In case of secured loan Agreement to sell and documents showing the charge on the said property. 4.  Such should be filed against the Borrower, Co-Borrower and Guarantor if any. 5.  All suits should be Summary Suit and along with interim relief for attachment of property / appointment of Receiver / Commissioner. 6.  No suits shall be withdrawn unless the entire amount is recovered or the account is closed on receipt of full payment or payment of the agreed amount / without approval. For complete details refer to Legal Checklist for handover.
Can registration of charge under the Companies Act, 2013 be done in relation to creation of security for a foreign currency loan?
Yes, where the assets being offered as security belong to a company incorporated under the Companies Act 2013 (or the erstwhile Companies Act 1956), the charge has to be registered under Companies Act, 2013.
Which all organizations are required to appoint Data Protection Officer (DPO) under GDPR? According to Article 37 of GDPR, DPOs must be appointed in the case of (a) public authorities, (b) organizations that engage in large scale systematic monitoring, or (c) organizations that engage in large scale processing of sensitive personal data.
Is it permitted, under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act, 2010, to invest any foreign contribution (as defined under that Act) received in mutual funds?
No, as investment in mutual funds has been declared to be a speculative activity, which has been barred under Section 8 of the Act.
What is the maximum number of partners in a partnership firm?
Section 464 of Companies Act, 2013, provides that total number of members of a partnership shall not exceed one hundred.
What is to be done if summons to witness are issued, but there is incomplete name or no name/designation of employee mentioned in the notice?
In case no name or designation is mentioned on a summons to witness notice issued to the Branch, in such case the BM/DBM or an officer of the Branch duly authorized by the BM must attend the summon on the date as mentioned to ensure that the summons does not go unanswered.
Whether Review of any order possible under DRT?
As per Rule 5A of the DRT (Procedure) Rules, 1993, any party considering itself aggrieved by an order made by the Tribunal on account of some mistake of error apparent on the face ot the record desires to obtain review of the order made against him, may apply for a review of the order of the Tribunal which had made the order. No application for review shall be made after the expiry of a period of 30 days from the date of order and no such application shall be entertained unless it is accompanied by an affidavit verifying the application. Where it appears to the Tribunal that there is no sufficient ground for a review, it shall reject the application but where the tribunal is of opinion that the application for review shall be granted, it shall grant the same provided that no such application shall be granted without previous notice to the opposite party to enable him to appear and to be heard in support of the order, a review of which is applied for
Can the Branch act upon a request for removal of dormancy status of an account received through e-mail?
Request for activation of dormant account received through e-mail should not be processed under any circumstances. The process detailed in e-Circular No. 9574 shall be required to be followed in this respect.
What action should be taken when a branch receives a notice issued by Real Estate Regulatory Authority of various states to freeze accounts of a certain entity?
All such accounts held by such entity is to be identified and directions issued by the Authority is to be complied with. Further an appropriate response is to be issued to the Concerned Authority intimating compliance of such directions on part of the Bank.
Who can form or incorporate an OPC?
Only a natural person who is an Indian Citizen and resident in India shall be eligible to incorporate/form a OPC.
Can an Individual have any number of 'Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account' in one bank? No. An individual is eligible to have only one BSBDA in one bank.
Whether the Court has power to close the proceedings of a cheque bounce case without the consent of the Bank?
Yes. the Court has the power to close the proceedings of a cheque bounce case without the consent of the Complainant.
In a consortium case involving security over leasehold properties, will a permission to mortgage (PTM)/ NOC received in favour of the lead bank suffice for the purpose of security creation for other member banks?
Yes, but the language of the PTM should clearly capture that the PTM is issued in favour of the lead bank who is acting and creating security for and on behalf of all other consortium members/banks. 
Reliance may be also be placed on the application submitted to the lessor by the security provider. In case of any doubt with respect to the interpretation of such PTMs/ NOCs, please contact CLG.
Do we need to obtain net worth certificate from a personal guarantor? Yes
Can a licensee sub-license an immovable property, which is the subject matter of a leave and license agreement, to a third party?
Only in case the right to sub-license has been given to the licensee in writing by the licensor, shall the licensee be entitled to sub-license the property, as per the terms agreed between the parties.
Whether LLP requires a registered office?
Yes, and the same is required to be specified in the incorporation document of the LLP.
What Debt Manager should do if Complaint under section 138 of NI Act is not filed within 30 days from expiry of cheque bounce notice period?
If Debt Manager has not filed a complaint under section 138 of NI Act within 30 days after expiry of notice period, Debt Manager may re-present the cheque if it is within validity period which is 3 months from the date of cheque.
Whether Hindu Undivided Family (HUF) / its Karta can become partner in LLP?
No. As per section 5 of LLP Act, 2008 only an individual or body corporate may be a partner in a Limited Liability Partnership. A HUF cannot be treated as a body corporate for purposes of LLP Act, 2008.
Does Security Provider or Guarantor need to sign Letter Acknowledgement of Debt? Yes.
When security is being created by way of mortgage, is resolution under section 180(1) (a) of the Companies Act, 2013 required?
Yes, a resolution under section 180(1) (a) Companies Act, 2013 is required in any case where the Company is selling, leasing or otherwise disposing of the whole or substantially the whole of its undertaking.
In case of non-applicability under the section above, a certificate from the Statutory Auditor / Key Managerial Personnel of the Company shall be required to confirm the non-applicability.
Does Title Search Report need to be updated every 3 years? Yes
What is Right to Information under GDPR?
Before collecting the information, the organizations must always tell individuals what data is being collected, how its' being used, how long it will be kept and whether it will be shared with any third parties.
What is the stamp duty on Personal Guarantees in Madhya Pradesh?
Stamp duty rates are updated on DMS and can be verified for each State. The path for the same is as follows. Universe> Business Group> Corporate Centre> Corporate Legal Group > Home > Business Use > Reference Material. If no specific entry is provided for for guarantee, then it has to be stamped as General Agreement + Indemnity.
What is the approval matrix for initiating legal action in Retail Asset Business - (DSMG)? Please refer COED Note - "Triggers for Legal action" for Approval Matrix for initiation of Legal Action. In case of any query, please coordinate with DSMG Process team.
Is nomination applicable to HUF accounts? No.
What if the borrowers/guarantors disclose the assets post direction for such disclosure?
In case if the borrowers discloses the personal/other assets, then DRT may pass an order restraining the former/its related party from dealing from the said assets.
Should Section 138 NI Act notices be issued in deceased cases by Debt Manager?
No such notices can be issued if the person who signed the cheque is deceased/ expired.
Within how many days payment demand notice needs to be sent in case of dishonor of cheques? As per Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, the payment demand notice needs to be sent within 30 days from the date of cheque return memo.
In case the common seal is affixed on a document, whether the rubber stamp of the authorized signatories is also required to be affixed in the event the same is countersigned as per the BR? No. However, if the rubber stamp is also affixed, this does not invalidate the document.
What are the ingredients/essentials for filing of cases Under Section 25 of the Payments and Settlements Act, 2005 for Electronic Clearing Services (ECS) Dishonour?
When such ECS dishonour takes place there is an electronically generated memo by the RBI which acts like the dishonor memo. Under the Payments and Settlements Act, 2005, the physical form of cheque is not required, instead the ECS Mandate form is the instrument and memo issued by the RBI are the basic documents.
Is the Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act, 1956 (the Act) applicable to members of scheduled tribes?
No the Act is inapplicable to members of Scheduled Tribes.
Branch has received a notice from Advocate to disclose information of our customer, can the same be shared?
No. Branch to send the copy of the notice to the Customer Service Quality Group(CSQG) team and also raise an SR on the team for assistance in issuing a response to such notices by following the process laid down in e-circular no. 8150.
What are the assets for which the permission of the assessing officer is required under Section 281 of Income tax Act (IT Act) for creation of charge?
Permission of assessing officer for the following assets is required during the pendency of any proceeding under the IT Act or after the completion thereof, but before the service of notice under rule 2 of the second schedule of the IT Act a Land b Building c Machinery d Plant e Shares f Securities
g Fixed deposits in banks
However, the above mentioned assets must not form part of the stock-in-trade of the business of the security provider
In cases where an MOE is recorded by another bank, acting as our agent, and it is not witnessed by any other bank official, contrary to the requirement in our standard MOE, can ICICI Bank accept such an MOE?
The witnessing of the MOE by an additional person is not mandatory from a legal perspective and such an MOE, assuming the contents are acceptable, may be accepted. 
Please refer to the mortgage instruction manual (available on DMS) for the procedure to be followed when MOE is recorded by another bank acting as our agent.
Whose approval is to be obtained by Debt Manager for filing of Sec. 138 NI Act Complaints? The proceedings under Sec. 138 NI Act can be initiated basis the approval of an officer of the grade of DGM and above. In case of deviations approval from officer of grade of JGM & above to be obtained.
With whom should the Notice of Intimation (NOI) be filed?
The NOI is to be filed with the sub-registrar/ registering officer within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the whole or any part of the mortgaged property is situated. If the immovable property falls within the jurisdiction of more than one registering officer, the process of filing notice of intimation shall be followed in all such jurisdictions with each such sub-registrar/registering officer.
Can a board resolution for borrowing, security creation or issuance of guarantee be passed by way of circulation?
No. Under Section 179, such powers must be exercised by a company board of directors at a meeting.
How can an existing partner cease to be a partner of an LLP?
A person may cease to be a partner in accordance with the terms of the LLP agreement or in the absence of specific provision in the LLP Agreement, by giving 30 days notice to the other partners.
In case of a deceased claim, if there is a discrepancy in the details of the nominee/claimant (KYC documents vis-a-vis the records of the Bank), what is the procedure to be followed by the branches? Branches to ascertain consistency of all other details as per records available/produced by the claimants and in case of minor discrepancies, branches may accept the variation, subject to obtaining an indemnity from all the claimants.
What is ISP 98? Can we issue SBLCs under ISP 98?
ISP 98 refers to the rules on International Standby Practices (ICC Publication no. 590). Yes, we may issue SBLCs under ISP98 after consulting with local legal team.
What is meant by a prohibitory order under the Employees Provident Fund Act?
The Employees Provident Fund Organization can issue a Prohibitory Order under section 8F of the EPF Act, instructing the Bank to pay dues owed by an account holder, from the money that is standing to the credit of the account maintained by such individual with the Bank to the Officer issuing such order or such other person as may be mentioned in the order.
Is providing a notice to a tenant necessary to evict a tenant?
Yes. A notice is necessary to evict a tenant and it is always best to serve such notice upon the tenant in writing and dispatched by speed post with AD to avoid future disputes.
What is a Letter Acknowledging Debt (LAD)?
LAD, as per the Limitation Act, 1963, is an admission, signed by the debtor, acknowledging an existing liability as on the date of that acknowledgment, by way of which the period of limitation stands extended.
Who is a data subject under GDPR?
The term data subject refers to any living individual whose personal data is collected, held or processed by an organization.
When is it required to be renewed?
Every person who has been granted a certificate of registration for receiving foreign contribution is required to renew the same within 6 (six) months before the expiry of the period of the certificate.
Whether a bank who is a beneficiary of a corporate guarantee be considered as a secured or an unsecured creditor during the CIR process of the corporate guarantor under IBC?
The Bank with respect to its claim against the corporate guarantor shall be considered as an unsecured creditor, unless the corporate guarantor has also provided security.
What is the difference between a data processor and a data controller under the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR)?
A controller is an organization that determines the purposes, conditions and means of the processing of personal data, while the processor is an organization which processes personal data on behalf of the controller.
What Debt Manager should do if court dismisses the complaint Under Section 138 of NI Act or the accused has been held not guilty or the accused has been acquitted?
Debt Manager should inform Legal Manager so that an appeal against the said order before the Appellate Court within 60 days depending upon the merits of the case can be filed.
Should additional interest be charged pending CERSAI filing? No.
Is Stamp duty payable on transactions or on instruments?
Stamp duty is payable on instruments. It is not payable on transactions.
What are documents to be submitted for withdrawal of cases from Court/Tribunal to Legal Manager by Debt Manager?
Memo approval as per Legal Triggers along with customer acknowledged copy of settlement letter and SOA (Statement of Account) and/or NDC (No Due Certificate) to be provided to Legal Manager by Debt Manager. Debt Manager acting as Power of attorney holder is to attend the matter before court for withdrawal.
What is the stamp duty on Power of Attorney in Madhya Pradesh? INR 1000 (as on January 30, 2019).
If a TSR for secured property is more than 3 years old,can the Bank rely on the same along with a No Encumbrance Certificate for the balance years in respect of the mortgaged property/ies? A supplemental TSR is required to be done,capturing searches before the SRO and if possible,courts.This is subject to the original TSR confirming nil defects in the security providers' title and applicable guidelines or internal process being followed for particular Business Groups.
Will the moratorium under Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) apply to personal and corporate guarantors?
The moratorium will not apply to a surety (both personal and/or corporate) under Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC).
Is there any applicable rate payable as per the Stamp Act on Different Documents?
Branch to refer the Corporate Legal Group DMS on UNIVERSE and refer to the stamp duty as applicable on different documents in particular State.
Is form CHG-1 filing under Companies Act, 2013 applicable for pledge of shares?
Yes, the company who is pledging the shares held by it (Pledgor) needs to file form CHG-1 under the Companies Act, 2013 for registration of the pledge with the Registrar of Companies.
What is to be done by the Debt Manager upon receipt of Objection to Demand  Notice issued under section 13 (2) of SARFAESI Act, 2002?
If the borrower replies to the notice within the said 60 days and raises his objections, then it is mandatory that the said notice should be replied by the authorized officer within 15 days from the receipt. On receipt of it, please immediately raise SR in iHelpdesk. Path. i-Helpdesk--> Internal Process Management-->Retail Legal Group
Can rights under a lease arrangement be sub-leased to any third party?
In case the right to sub-lease being agreed upon in writing by the lessor and lessee, the lessee shall be entitled to sub-lease the property as per the terms agreed between the parties.
If the Company does not have Company Secretary and the company is required to obtain certification from practising Company Secretary, can a Chartered Accountant certify the board resolution instead?
Board Resolution can be certified to be true by any person so authorized under the Board 
Resolution to certify. It can also be certified by a Key Management Personnel in the absence of any specific name mentioned in the resolution for certification.
When is section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013 applicable?
Section 186 of the Companies Act is applicable when a guarantee or security is proposed to be given by a company with respect to a loan availed by a different entity.  
In such cases, the applicability and manner of evidencing compliance with this section should be determined.
Is it mandatory that the premises which we take on lease is assessed by the Municipal Corporation?
Yes, any deviation would require Premise Committee approval (PC).
What should be the governing law and jurisdiction of the bank guarantee under Uniform Rules for Demand Guarantees (URDG) 758?
Article 34 (Governing Law) and Article 35 (Jurisdiction) of URDG 758 state unless otherwise provided in the guarantee/counter guarantee, the governing law and jurisdiction shall be the law and courts of the place of the issuing branch/office of guarantor/ counter guarantor (as the case may be).
What is UCP?
UCP is the Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits which is a set of contractual rules created by International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) for uniformity in trade practice. The current version is entitled UCP 600 and these govern various products such as letters of credit and standby letters of credit (SBLCs).
For pledging of shares held in dematerialised form, is it necessary for both the pledgor and pledgee to have the same Depository Participant? No.
Whether agreed bank clause is required in case where insurance policies, are endorsed in favour of ICICI Bank?
The agreed bank clause is not required so long as the policy has been endorsed in the name of the Bank or the policy is in the joint name of the Bank and the insured.
What is the Minimum period i.e. duration of search to be conducted by the Advocate while preparing Title Search Report (TSR)?
Minimum 13 years of search is mandatory for Title Search Report (TSR).
Can we issue bank guarantees governed by foreign laws and subject to foreign jurisdiction? Yes, provided there is an updated and favourable opinion available on DMS for that particular jurisdiction and a foreign law indemnity.
<a href="http://universe.icicibankltd.com/BusinessGroups/LEGAL_DMS_NEW/index.html">Link to DMS</a>
Or 
Use below navigation path
Universe>E-Circulars>Business Groups>Corporate Centre>Corporate Legal Group
Can a lender appropriate money from the account of the borrower during moratorium under IBC? It has been established through case law that no lender can appropriate any monies from the account of the borrower while the moratorium is in effect.
What is the period for which chain of title is to be traced in case security is proposed to be created over Government lands? 30 years
Whether a Stand By Letter of Credit (SBLC) is governed by Uniform Rules for Demand Guarantees (URDG) or Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits (UCP)?
A Stand by Letter of Credit (SBLC) will be governed by UCP 600 and ISP 98, as URDG deals with demand guarantees only.
What is the deceased claim settlement process for Non-Resident Deposits/Accounts? The process for handling deceased claim is the same as resident accounts save and except the additional documentation as detailed in e-Circular 9577.
Which all organizations are required to appoint European Union Representative under GDPR? Organizations that process personal data of European Union residents must appoint an EU representative when they are not based in or do not have any physical presence in the European Union, and where the processing relates to (1) offering goods or services to EU residents or (2) monitoring behavior of EU residents.
Does consent of borrower is required for private treaty sale under SARFAESI Act, 2002? No.
Can a minor hold beneficial interest in a One Person Company (OPC)?
No, a minor cannot hold a beneficial interest in a One Person Company.
What is a foreign limited liability partnership?
A foreign limited liability partnership means a limited liability partnership formed, incorporated or registered outside India which establishes a place of business within India.
What is mining?
Mining is performed by high powered computers that solve complex mathematical problems so that a new block can be created in a blockchain.
Can borrower or any third party file an appeal Under Section 17 challenging SARFAESI Act, 2002 and in which court or forum it can be challenged?
Yes, under this Section, any person including the borrower if aggrieved (affected) by any steps taken under Section 13(4) of the Act or in pursuance of the order passed Under Section 14 of SARFAESI Act, 2002 can approach the DRT within 45 days from the date of being so aggrieved.
Can an LLP have only one partner?
No. A LLP must have at least two partners at all times. In a LLP, at least two partners must be "designated" partners.
Can an application u/s 7, 9 or 10 of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) be withdrawn after being admitted in the NCLT?
The Adjudicating Authority may allow the withdrawal of an application admitted under sections 7, 9 or 10 of IBC, on an application made by the applicant with the approval of ninety per cent voting shares of the committee of creditors, before the issue of an invitation of expression of interest under Regulation 36A of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Insolvency Resolution Process for Corporate Persons) Regulations, 2016.
Which version of URDG do we use, 1992(458) or 2010 (758)? If the guarantee text merely states that the guarantee is being governed by URDG, which version of URDG will apply.
We usually refer to the latest version i.e. 2010 revision of URDG (URDG 758). If any guarantee issued on or after 1st July, 2010 states that it is subject to URDG without specifying the version or publication number, the guarantee will be subject to URDG 758, 2010 revision as of March 7, 2019. NOTE: Please check with the local legal team to for any further revision of these principles.
What are the facility documents required to be executed with a borrower when providing the borrower with a Capex LC facility, either as a standalone limit or as a sub-limit of an RTL? In case a stand-alone limit for a Capex LC facility is sanctioned, the standard working capital facility agreement shall have to be executed with the LC product- schedule included as an annexure.
Where a Capex LC is included as a sub-limit of an RTL, the standard RTL facility agreement should be executed with an amendment to include product-specific terms and schedule (for the Capex LC).
Third party / advocate has approached the Bank, asking for information about one of our Bank Customer Account. Can the Bank share it ?
No. Banks are required to keep customers personal information including customer account information strictly confidential. No confidential information should be divulged to third parties including family members unless explicit consent of the customer is obtained. Information may only be shared when directed by an order of court or by law enforcement agencies so empowered to seek such information. Note that any sharing of such confidential information may result in claims from customers against the Bank.
What is a node?
Node is a network of active electronic devices (the device must be connected to the internet and must have an IP address) that supports a blockchain.
What is the amount that can be claimed by Bank as interim compensation in Sec. 138 NI Act complaint?
As per S. 143A of NI (Amendment) Act, interim compensation claim shall not exceed 20% of the amount of the cheque.
If the borrower responds to the notice under Section 13(2) of SARFAESI, 2002, what is the timeline for the bank to respond to such representation made by the borrower?
Bank needs to respond within 15 days from the date of such representation made by the borrower.
What is Stamp Duty?
It is a type of tax which is paid for the transaction performed by way of document or instrument under the applicable stamp laws.
What is the court fee for filing an Original Application (OA) before the Debt Recovery Tribunal?
Rs.12,000/- for Rs.10,00,000/- and Rs.1,000/- for every increase in claim value upto Rs,1,00,000/-. 
Max. Limit is Rs.1,50,000/-
Can the Branch handover original title documents of a mortgaged property to a power of attorney holder POA holder on the basis of a POA issued by the mortgagor in favour of the POA holder? The Branch can handover original title deed of a mortgaged property on the basis of the Power of Attorney issued by a POA holder provided the POA is as per the specific POA format prescribed in the e-circular no. 9560. In case the POA is in any other format, kindly refer to the be guided by ECircular 9560 and follow the process as laid down therein for handover of property documents.
Can the Lease Deed be printed locally by the Infra Facility Manger (IFM)?
Yes. Infra Facility Manager (IFM) can print the lease deed locally subject to the approval from RIH.
Can a board resolution for derivative facilities be signed by the persons named as authorized users in the said board resolution?
As per RBI guidelines, such board resolutions should not be signed by a person authorized to undertake the transactions i.e., the authorised users. The same needs to be referred to RBI compliance team.
In case of a bank account being opened for a partnership firm, should the partnership deed be signed by all the partners of the firm?
Yes. Further, the partnership deed should be executed on stamp paper or franked with appropriate value according to the applicable stamp law of the State in which such deed has been executed.
What is the process for deceased claim settlement in case of death of a Karta of a Hindu Undivided Family (HUF)?
In case of a deceased claim being received for a HUF account, the copy of death certificate (verified with original) along with other requisite documents as mentioned in e-circular 9577 to be obtained for settling the claim.
How can a Power of Attorney executed abroad be used in India?
A Power of Attorney executed outside for use in India should be executed and apostatized before the Indian Embassy/High Commission in the country in which it is executed and it must be stamped according to the Indian Stamp Act within three months of its receipt in India or such other amendment, as may be applicable in various states from time to time. The process laid down in ecircular no. 9574 is to be followed in this regard.
How to respond to notices received from Labour Authorities in respect to a dispute raised by a security guard?
The security guards are not employees of ICICI Bank and as such the concerned security agency which had supplied the security guard is required to be intimated so that suitable steps are taken by them. Additionally, a suitable reply is required to be drafted and submitted to Labor Authorities informing them that the concerned security guard is an employee of the security agency and there is no employee-employer relationship between the security guard and the Bank.
If any interest is accrued on foreign contribution received, will it also be considered as foreign contribution?
If any interest is accrued after the foreign contribution has been deposited in a bank, then the interest will also be considered as foreign contribution. Any additional income earned from the foreign contribution received and any interest accrued on the same will also be classified as foreign contribution.
In a consortium banking arrangement the lead bank has not obtained a revival letter while internally the previous Letter Acknowledging Debt is due to expire. What needs to be done?
Not obtaining a renewal LAD/revival letter prior to the expiry of the existing LAD would imply that the limitation period for filing a suit for recovery of the money lent will lapse and thereafter no suit may be instituted against the borrower. If the limitation period expires, the same cannot be extended under Section 18 of the limitation act. Please engage with the lead bank for execution of a revival letter. In the interim, a bilateral LAD in respect of outstanding dies payable to the Bank may be issued by the borrower.
What is an affidavit?
An affidavit is a written document signed by the person (termed as Deponent), in presence of and attested by a court appointed Notary/ Oath Commissioner and two witnesses, confirming that the contents of the written document are true and correct to his knowledge and he has concealed nothing material.
What is General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)?
The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is a legal framework that sets guidelines for the collection and processing of personal information of individuals within the European Union (EU) which is a political and economic union of 28 member states that are located in Europe.
What kind of companies are exempted under Section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013?
Under Section 186(11) of the Companies Act, 2013, loan, security, guarantee transactions entered into by (i) a banking, insurance, housing finance company in the ordinary course of its business or (ii) a company engaged in the business of financing of companies or (iii) companies engaged in providing infrastructural facilities are exempted from the applicability of Section 186. 
Schedule VI of the Companies Act provides an inclusive list of projects or activities that fall within the definition of infrastructural facilities, including power, real estate development, telecommunications and agriculture.
Can original property documents/ title deeds be handed over to the spouse (who is also a co-owner/co-applicant) if the Borrower is deceased, in the absence of a succession certificate? The original property documents/ title deeds can be handed over to the spouse, provided the spouse procures and furnishes: (i) Indemnity in the prescribed format along with a No-Objection Certificate from all other legal heirs of the borrower; and (ii) a copy of the death certificate of the Borrower. Do follow the process as laid down in e-circular no. 9560 for resolution of such claims.
What process is to be followed if the account holder as well the nominee for an account is deceased?
An account where both the account holder and the nominee are deceased will be treated akin to an account without nomination.
Can an NOC issued by a society/developer for creating mortgage on flats be relied upon for security creation, if the same is not specifically in the name of the mortgagor?
Such an NOC can be relied if it is generic in nature and not issued specifically in the name of a person (other than the mortgagor).
Who can sign the Memorandum Of Entry for equitable mortgage?
The person signing the Memorandum Of Entry should be the authorized representative of Bank.
Can the bank break a fixed deposit prematurely to pay the EPFO dues?
Yes, please refer to e-circular no. 9567 and follow the process laid down therein.
Whether the chain of documents specified in the Title Search Report are to be obtained in photocopies or are required to be obtained in original?
All documents/ deeds mentioned in the Title Search Report should be obtained in original/ photocopy as specified under the Title Search Report.
What is meant by a deemed employer in default?
If a person fails to make payment to the Central Provident Fund Commissioner in pursuance of an order issued under section 8F of the EPF Act, he shall be a deemed employer in default in respect of the amount specified in the order.
Can dematerialized shares offered in pledge be substituted?
Yes, provided the pledgee agrees to it. However, the procedure for effecting this change involves closure/release of earlier pledge and creation of a new pledge and therefore, the legal implication of the aforesaid process may inter-alia involve losing priority of charge created in favour of the lender by virtue of the release of earlier pledge. Any such case should be referred to the corporate legal group to seek an opinion from CLG on the legal implications of such release and new creation.
What should be done in cases where the MOP mentioned in the Trust Deed/Bye-laws are different from that mentioned in the Resolution?
In case the Trust Deed/Bye-law allows the board/managing committee to take all decisions to change the MOP, then the Resolution may be accepted. If not, then a Resolution is to be passed and submitted to the Registering Authority. An acknowledged copy of the same may be obtained from the Registering Authority for the purpose of account opening.
If the HUF account is in the name of the HUF, can the wife of the Karta of the HUF operate the account as Manager of HUF?
The wife of the Karta of the HUF may be allowed to operate the HUF account, provided all the members agree for the same and a letter is provided to the Bank signed by all the members of the family confirming her appointment as Manager of the HUF. The process laid down in e-Circular 9574 must be followed in this regard.
Why is GDPR applicable to ICICI Bank Limited?
GDPR applies to any organization that offers goods and services to individuals who are residents of 
EU irrespective of the fact that the organization is situated outside EU. Since ICICI Bank Limited (ICICI Bank) offers services such as opening of saving account, remittance services, etc. to individuals residing in EU, GDPR is applicable to ICICI Bank. 
In addition, GDPR will also apply to offshore branches of ICICI Bank, say Hong Kong Branch, Singapore Branch if such branches are also providing any kind of services to EU Residents.
What remedy is available if the stamp paper to be affixed on a document has been purchased in the incorrect name?
The stamp paper needs to be in the name of the Parties executing the agreement/ document. The Borrower/ Customer will need to re-purchase the stamp paper in the correct name and attempt to have the incorrect stamp paper cancelled/ seek refund.
Can a minor open an account with the Bank?
Yes. However, the minor must be represented by a legal guardian. KYC documents as specified in e-circular 15436 must be obtained. Upon the minor becoming a major (on attaining the age of 18), the procedures laid down in e-circular 9574 have to be completed for regularization of the account.
Can a partnership firm be converted into a Limited Liability Partnership  (LLP)?
A firm can be converted into an LLP in accordance with the provisions of Sec. 55 of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008 and the Second Schedule to the said Act.
How can the summons be served Under Section 138 NI Act Complaint?
Summons are sent and served through police station where accused is residing. The summons can also be served by speed post or by authorized courier service and if not accepted, the summon will be treated as duly served. Police action is generally limited to only service of warrants.
What are the various types of letter of comforts and are they enforceable?
Letters of comfort are a form of contractual comfort or assurance being provided by sponsors/ promoters of a borrower as a means of credit enhancement. Typically, for lending transactions, binding letters of comfort are of two types - one that amounts to a guarantee and others that do not. In case of a letter of comfort that is akin to a guarantee, the comfort provider undertakes a direct financial obligation. In the event the comfort provider fails to make payment on demand, the beneficiary may take recourse to recover this debt. In case of other letters, where no direct obligation is undertaken, the enforcement shall be dependent on the wording/ language of the letter. Where the LOC provides either an assurance to fund or support the borrower or deposit amounts in a designated account, these promises do not amount to debt obligations but are nonetheless enforceable under the Specific Relief Act and the Bank may sue for performance of the obligations undertaken thereunder.
Is it necessary for Debt Manager to mention Sec 13(13) of the SARFAESI Act, 2002 in the demand notice issued under the Act?
Yes. As per Sec. 13(13) of the SARFAESI Act, no borrower shall after receipt of notice under SARFAESI Act, transfer by way of sale, lease or otherwise (other than in the ordinary course of business) any of his secured assets referred to in the notice, without prior written consent of the secured creditor.
Link of i-Legal / Litigation Management System ?
URL of i-Legal application is  <a 
href="https://i-legal.icicibank.com/Legal/Admin/ad_Login.aspx">Link</a> or copy the link https://i-legal.icicibank.com/Legal/Admin/ad_Login.aspx
Application is best viewed in Chrome browser.
What are the dates of creation of security for various forms of security interest?
For hypothecation - Date of execution of the hypothecation deed;
For equitable mortgage - Date of the deposit of the title deeds by actual/constructive delivery. 
For registered mortgage- Date of execution of indenture of mortgage.
For Pledge - The execution date as mentioned on the pledge master report (PMR).
Can a deceased claim settlement be initiated on the basis of oral request of the claimant?
No, a written request letter accompanied by complete set of relevant documents shall be required to be submitted for initiating deceased claim settlement for any account. Upon receipt of such request and documents do follow the process as laid down in e-circular no. 9577
What is the latest CAL format?
The Project Simplify CAL available on the DMS is the latest CAL format and should be used for all new cases.
When does the Infra Facility Manager(IFM) required to execute the amenities agreement? The Infra Facility Manager(IFM) subject to the approval of Premises Committee(PC) can execute separate amenities agreement in case if the landlord is insisting on the execution of such amenities agreement.
What is the exemption in stamp duty provided to Small Scale Industries on an agreement for deposit of title deeds in Madhya Pradesh?
0.25% of the amount subject to maximum of Rs. 10 lacs (as on January 30, 2019).
What is Right to Restrict Processing under GDPR?
This right enables an individual to limit the processing of his personal data for instance, when an individual contests the accuracy of data. In such situation, the processing should be restricted until the accuracy of the data is verified.
In case of change in name of a service provider, does the Bank need to execute fresh documents in respect of the agreements entered into with such service provider?
Fresh documentation need not be executed, however appropriate documents should be obtained from the service provider to evidence the change in name. Eg. Copy of  Fresh Certificate of Incorporation upon change of name where the service provider is a Company.
Under URDG in how many days should the payment be made under a guarantee?
Unless otherwise agreed, under URDG an issuing bank is required to examine the presentation made by the beneficiary within 5 business days following the day of presentation. A guarantor is obligated to make a payment when it determines that the presentation(demand) is a complying presentation.
What stamp duty has to be paid on facility agreement if full duty on agreement relating to deposit of title deeds has been paid in the same transaction?
Stamp duty payable for General Agreement + Indemnity has to be paid on the facility agreement. Stamp duty rates are updated on DMS and can be verified for each State. The path for the same is as follows. Universe> Business Group> Corporate Centre> Corporate Legal Group > Home > Business Use > Reference Material.
Does any manual cancellation or insertion in the agreement, letter or documents provided by the customers require authentication?
Yes. The same must be authenticated by a counter sign to be made against such cancellation or insertion by the customer or the person signing such agreement, letter or documents on behalf of the customer.
For pledging of shares held in dematerialized form, is it necessary for both the pledgor and pledgee to be registered with the same Depository? Yes.
What is the process to be followed by Debt Manager to pursue Civil Suit/Original Application filed before Civil Court/DRT against Delinquent Borrowers?
Please refer DSMG/OG/89. Please co-ordinate with DSMG process team.
What is the process to be followed by Debt Manager for Service of Summon through Bailiff or Dasti?
This is Court process, Debt Manager acting as PoA Holder to ensure service of summons through Bailiff or Dasti (Delivery of Summons by hand) in assigned matters within stipulated time frame and once completed it should be immediately informed to Legal Manager.
Does Bank Officer can only be appointed as Receiver by Court/Tribunal?
No, appointment of Receiver depends upon Court/Tribunal, However, we should always pray for bank employee appointment considering the feasibility of execution of such appointment.
What is the Bank's internal threshold to be kept in mind while initiating repossession of the property under the SARFAESI Act, 2002?
The process of repossessing property under the SARFAESI Act must be initiated immediately on all home loans accounts classified as NPA. There is furthwer no bar on the Bank under law to  take physical possession of the property even in cases where the mortgaged property is occupied by third party or even tenants. Note - If the value of property is found to be less than the amount payable by the customer 1. File DRT:- If the difference in these amounts is equal or greater than INR 10 lacs. 2. File Civil Suit- If the difference in these amounts is between INR 2 Lacs to INR 10 Lacs.
Is the Infra Facility Manager (IFM) required to obtain Title Search Report (TSR) in case of any lease with Govt. Authorities is with Zero Rental and/or Nominal Rent?
No. The Infra Facility Manager (IFM) is not required to obtain Title Search Report (TSR) in case if the lease is with Govt. Authorities and the same is on Zero/Nominal rental basis.
What is personal data under the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR)?
Personal Data is defined in Article 4 of GDPR as any information relating to an identifiable natural person who can be directly or indirectly identified in particular by reference to an identifier.
What happens when the sole proprietor dies?
Upon the death of a sole proprietor, the proprietorship firm would stand dissolved. On receipt of notice of death of the proprietor, debit freeze/ lien should be immediately marked in the account to prevent further drawals from the account. If the proprietorship firm is re-constituted, and the credit facilities are continued to the reconstituted firm after proper credit appraisal, then all the documents are required to be executed afresh.
Whether a charge can be registered for Limited Liability Partnerships (LLPs)? Yes.
Is CERSAI filing necessary when a ship is being mortgaged?
No, the provisions of the SARFAESI Act, 2002, do not apply in transactions for creation of security interest over vessels.
What is the maximum timeline for mortgage creation and/or assignment for SMEAG cases? The maximum timeline for mortgage and/or assignment (i.e. original timeline of 4 months, extendable to a further 2 months with joint approval of DZM- Business, Zonal Head- Risk and Senior Group Head- CLG) is 6 months from the date of first disbursement/limit set-up of the facility. All creation and perfection formalities to be completed within such timeline, including CHG-I filing.
In case of leasehold properties previously mortgaged with the Bank, is a fresh permission to mortgage (PTM) or consent from lessors required to be taken for subsequent mortgages as well? Yes, every mortgage is a new security and a fresh PTM is required, unless the existing PTM taken by the Bank grants a blanket approval to the Bank for creation of mortgage in future as well. In case of any doubt with respect to the interpretation of such PTMs/ NOCs, please contact CLG.
Can a guarantee under URDG be transferred?
Unless otherwise modified, URDG 758 permits transfer of the guarantee only if the guarantee specifically states so. Please follow the procedure laid in Article 33 of URDG 758 and PAC process provided in circular no. 10945 and 14736 for issuing guarantees with assignment clause.
Who is an Authorised Officer under SARFAESI Act, 2002? Is any Debt Manager an Authorized Officer under SARFAESI Act, 2002?
An Authorised Officer means an officer not less than a chief manager, as specified by the Board of Directors or Board of Trustees of the Bank or any other person or authority exercising powers of superintendence, direction and control of the business or affairs of the Bank, to exercise the rights of the Bank under SARFAESI Act. Any Debt Manager in the grade of CM 1 and above can only act as Authorized Officer.
Which cases can be referred to NCLT under IBC?
All matters relating to insolvency and bankruptcy of corporate debtors where there the minimum amount of default is one lakh rupees (INR 100,000) can be referred to NCLT under IBC.
Can the acknowledged copy of the application filed under section 281 of the income tax act, 1961 and the certificate from KMP be taken at the time of security creation if timelines for creation of security is provided?
As per the standard, the KMP certificate and acknowledged copy of the IT application are to be obtained upfront. However, these documents can be obtained prior to security creation, after obtaining requisite approvals.
Can common signatories sign on behalf of borrower and security provider, if they are authorized as per their respective board resolutions?
The security documents and facility documents are required to be signed by distinct signatories to avoid any implication of a conflict of interest. Generally, signatories are authorized to negotiate the terms of a transaction and also execute the documents. If it is unavoidable to authorize one or more signatories, the authority granted to the signatory under the board resolution of one entity should be limited to only execution of documents with no powers of negotiation.
Is it mandatory for the associations which have been granted registration to upload annual returns online? Yes.
Is a pledge agreement required to be registered under the Registration Act, 1908? No, it is not required to be registered under the Registration Act, 1908.
What is the stamp duty applicable on bank guarantees in Maharashtra? As of May 27, 2021:
i. Performance guarantee- INR 100 ii. Financial guarantee- 0.1% of the guaranteed amount if guaranteed amount is under 10 lakhs and 0.2% guaranteed amount if guaranteed amount exceeds 10 lakhs. 
NOTE: Please ensure that the ready reckoner is referred to prior to assessing the stamp duty payable. The path for the same is as follows. Universe> Business Group> Corporate Centre> Corporate Legal Group > Home > Business Use > Reference Material.
Can a deceased claim settlement be initiated if complete documentation is not available with the Branch for the time being?
Please refer to e-circular no. 9577 and follow the detailed process laid down therein in case of complete documentation not being furnished by a claimant for deceased claim settlement.
Is it mandatory to have Occupancy Certificate(OC) /Completion Certificate(CC) for the premises? Yes. Any deviation requires Premise Committee(PC) Approval.
Is the Infra Facility Manager(IFM) required to seek permission from the Charity Commissioner while executing Lease Deed in case if the Landlord is a Public trust?
Yes. The Infra Facility Manager(IFM) is required to seek permission from the Charity Commissioner whilst executing the lease deed in case if the landlord is a public trust.
What is private key?
A private key is a tiny bit of code that is paired with a public key and is created as part of public key cryptography during asymmetric-key encryption. It is used to decrypt and transform a message to a readable format or it is used to sign a document digitally or to authenticate a transaction by the originator (like sending cryptocurrency).
What is meant by execution of instruments?
Execution means signing of the instruments by the parties to the instruments.
What is the minimum amount of default pursuant to which application under Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (IBC) can be filed with NCLT?
In exercise of the powers conferred under Sec. 4 of IBC, 2016, the central government, by notification dated March 24, 2020, has notified the minimum amount of default for the purpose of filing applications under IBC as Rupees 1 crore.
Is obtaining proof of employment mandatory for opening of salary accounts?
Yes, obtaining proof of employment is mandatory for opening of all salary accounts. The detailed process as laid out in e-circular no. 15436 to be followed in this regard.
Can an NDU-POA arrangement be considered as security?
No, an NDU-POA arrangement is a form of contractual comfort.
Is a power of attorney (POA) required to be notarised and why?
There is a presumption on the execution and authenticity of a power of attorney, if the same has been executed and authenticated before a notary public (Section 85 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872). Thus, a POA has to be notarised for us to be able to take benefit of this presumption when using a POA as an evidence before a court of law.
What is the stamp duty applicable on a general agreement ?
Please ensure that the ready reckoner is referred to prior to assessing the stamp duty payable. The path for the same is as follows. Universe> Business Group> Corporate Centre> Corporate Legal Group > Home > Business Use > Reference Material.
How to calculate the stamp duty payable on counter guarantees issued in favour of ICICI Bank Limited?
The stamp duty payable on such counter guarantees shall be the stamp duty payable on bank guarantees. If the counter guarantee has an indemnity clause, please ensure that the stamp duty payable shall be the aggregate of the stamp duty payable on bank guarantee and indemnity. Please refer to the stamp duty reckoner for the state-wise stamp duty rates in India.
Can we use formats of Documents available under WBG for partnership firms/Societies/trust and 
LLP?
Yes, the formats available on the DMS for non-corporate entities should be used on case specific basis. In case formats are not available on DMS for non-corporates, then this should be routed through CLG.
Is it mandatory to have a certificate of registration to receive foreign contribution? No, it is possible to obtain case specific approvals from the Government.
Is it necessary for Debt Manager to disclose in Original Application (OA) in DRT, the value of securities and other assets, if any?
As per the amendment under DRT Act, i.e., Sec. 19(3A) it is mandatory for the Secured Creditor to disclose in  Original Application(OA) in DRT, the value of all the securities and other assets, if any. S. 19(4)- Such disclosure enables the DRT to pass restrained order against the borrowers/its related parties from dealing with those assets in any manner whatsoever and the same shall be incorporated by the DRT whilst issuing summons to the borrowers.
What is ISDA?
The ISDA Master Agreement is a standardized document drafted by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA). For the sake of uniformity and standardization in respect of all derivative contracts, participants use ISDA documentation, with suitable modifications for continuing ongoing relationships.
Can a guarantee governed by the Uniform Rules of Demand Guarantees be transferred/assigned? Unless otherwise modified, URDG 758 permits transfer/assignment of the guarantee only if the guarantee specifically states so.
Who can be appointed as EU Representative under GDPR?
Any natural or legal person who resides in one of the EU Member States can be appointed as a representative in the Union for a non-EU-based company.
What is to be done if in cases of divorce both the spouses are not willing to be physically present together for handover of title documents?
In cases where both spouses are not ready to be present together for handover of documents, either one Co-owner should give a Power of Attorney (POA) as per format laid down in e-Circular 9560, in favour of the other or a relinquishment deed in favour of the other co-owner along with a Noobjection Certificate (NOC) and ID proof of such co-owner should be obtained and the process laid down in e-Circular 9560 should be followed.
Can more than one Authorized officers of the Secured Creditor be entitled to exercise action under the SARFAESI Act, 2002?
Yes. The rights of the secured creditor under the Act may be exercised by one or more of his officers authorized for initiating action under SARFAESI Act, 2002.
What is to be done by the Debt Manager if the Customer pays any amount in the Court during the Case proceedings?
If the customer is settling the case or paying the amount equivalent or more than the claim amount,  it should be recorded in the court only. Authorized Representative will ensure to deposit the money collected in the courts on the same day in the Bank.
What is a public key?
A public key is created in public key encryption cryptography that uses asymmetric-key encryption algorithms. Public keys are used to convert a message into an unreadable format i.e., encrypted message or it is used to check the validity of a digital signature or used by a recipient to conclude a transaction (like receiving cryptocurrency).
What do you mean by "Beneficial Owner" of dematerialized share?
As per Depositories Act, 1996, when shares are held in dematerialized form, Depository is considered as the "registered owner" of the shares and the actual investor is considered as the "beneficial owner" of the shares.
What is a section 65B Certificate mentioned in notices received from law enforcement authorities/Court?
A Section 65B certificate is a certificate produced under the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, when producing an electronic document before the courts/tribunals confirming that the conditions of section 65B in terms of the integrity of the document produced have been met.
What is the importance of the landmark Supreme Court judgement on determination of rights of the tenant under SARFAESI Act, 2002 action?
"In the case Harshad Govardhan Sondagar v International Assets Reconstruction Co. Ltd. & Ors the Supreme Court held as follows-
Section 13 of SARFAESI overrides Section 68 and 69 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (""the Act, 1882"") but not all its provisions in relation to the rights of the lessee, under a valid lease agreement, which is created prior to the receipt of notice, under Section 13(2), by the borrower In the event that the lessee has the possession of the secured asset which is in accordance with Section 65A of the Act, 1882 and such lease has not been terminated as provided in Section 111 of the Act, 1882 then the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate(CMM)/ District Magistrate(DM) cannot pass an order for the secured creditor to take over the possession of the secured asset.
A valid lease agreement shall be considered to be terminated as per Section 111(f) of the Act, 1882 when the lessee voluntarily surrenders the secured asset. In such event, the order by the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate(CMM)/ District Magistrate(DM) to pass over the possession of the secured asset to the secured creditor may be passed.
The Chief Metropolitan Magistrate(CMM)/ District Magistrate(DM) shall adhere to the principles of natural justice in order to determine the existence of a valid tenancy.
In order to proof the existence of valid tenancy, the tenant must produce proof of execution of a registered instrument. In the event that there is no registered agreement then the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate(CMM)/ District Magistrate(DM) shall come to a conclusion that the tenant is not entitled to possession of the secured asset from the date of the instrument or date of the delivery of the said possession.
In the case V. Vishwanathan & Ors v. District Collector-Cum Magistrate, Coimbatore District & Ors it was held that the question of the possession of the secured asset can be determined only after conducting proper enquiry and issuing notice to all the affected parties including the tenants/lessee. In the case Vishal N. Kalsaria v Bank of India & Ors it was held that non-registration of a lease agreement does not render such tenancy nugatory and inconsequential. It was held that due attention must be paid to the relationship between two parties in the lease agreement along with the rights, obligations and liabilities of each party. Further, the fact that there is regular payment by the tenant and acceptance of rent by the lessor assumes significant importance in order to decide the claim of valid tenancy. Also, no undue advantage can be taken on the grounds that there is no existence of a valid lease agreement."
Which all organizations are required to appoint Data Protection Officer (DPO) under the General Data Protection Regulations GDPR?
According to Article 37 of the GDPR, DPOs must be appointed in the case of
(i) a public authority or body, except for courts acting in their judicial capacity or
(ii) the core activities of the controller or the processor consist of processing operations which, by virtue of their nature, their scope and/or their purposes, require regular and systematic monitoring of data subjects on a large scale or
(iii) organizations that engage in large scale processing of sensitive personal data.
When all the safe custody memos are not mentioned in Security Clearance Memo, whether a separate confirmation has to be taken from Corporate Legal Group? No, this has to be obtained from the Business Group.
How to obtain Possession of Secured assets under section 13(4) of SARFAESI Act, 2002? Under Section 13(4) of SARFAESI Act, 2002 the Authorized Officer can take the physical possession of the secured asset. In case of any resistance, the Authorized Officer has to then, approach Chief Metropolitan Magistrate(CMM) or District Magistrate(DM) for assistance. Application under section 14 is to be filed before Chief Metropolitan Magistrates or District 
Magistrate depending upon the location of the property, praying for assistance of the police and Govt authorities to take the physical possession of the mortgaged premises / charged assets.
What is a resolution under Section 62(3) of the Companies Act, 2013?
It is a shareholders resolution which is required in relation to the bank exercising its right to convert debt into equity.
Do we have foreign law opinions on bank guarantees?
Yes. You may find these on 
<http://universe.icicibankltd.com/BusinessGroups/LEGAL_DMS_NEW/BLG_Others_CMBIFIG_ LegalOpinionDoc.html>
Can we represent the cheque again after issuance of notice under section 138 of Negotiable Instrument Act?
Yes, if the cheque is valid that is with in 3 months from the date as mentioned on cheque, such cheque may be presented again and notice may be issued.
What is the validity of a Board Resolution?
Resolutions to be dated within 6 months from the date of execution of the facility documents.
What is the Right to Object under the General Data Protection Regulations GDPR?
Under this right, the individual has a right to object, on reasonable grounds to processing of personal data concerning him.
Can manual alteration on partnership deed be accepted for the purposes of account opening? The manual alteration if duly countersigned by all partners wherein the alteration has been carried out along with notarization of the deed accompanied by a letter on the letterhead of the firm issued by all the partners confirming such alteration may be accepted.
Is the authorized signatory required to initial/sign all pages of the document(s) executed by him/her? Yes.
Is the signature of the  guarantor/s also required on the Credit Arrangement Letter?
The borrower and all third party security and contractual comfort providers have to execute the CAL.
Who is aurthorized to sign a Service Provider Agreement on behalf the Bank?
An official in the grade AGM and above, Regional Heads, Zonal Heads and the Company Secretary can sign a Service Provider Agreement for the Bank.
Can the Bank onboard/ provide facilities to specially abled individuals, e.g. mentally ill person defined under Mental Health Act, 1987 or a person within the meaning of The National Trust for Welfare of Person with Autism, Cerebral Palsy, Mental Retardation and Multiple Disabilities Act, 1999?
Yes, please refer to e-circular 11234 and follow the process as laid down therein.
In case the customer submits a request for effecting change in the account particulars e.g. address, mobile phone no., specimen signature, etc., which process is to be adhered to?
The process laid down in e-circular 9574 shall be required to be followed for servicing of such customer requests.
What is to be done if the Power of Attorney (POA), for the purposes of handover of title documents in favour of a third party, is executed abroad.
As such POA is executed abroad, it shall be considered to be a foreign document and for such foreign document to be acceptable in India the document should either : a) be certified thereafter by an Indian Notary or,  b) be certified by the Indian Embassy or, c) an apostle certificate be issued under The Hague Convention for such document.
Is Infra Facility Manager(IFM) required to take No Objection Certificate(NOC) from the society while taking premises on lease?
Yes, Infra Facility Manager (IFM) has to take No Objection Certificate(NOC) from the society. This establishes if there exists any maintenance charges outstanding. Also, to understand if society is not having any objection to let Bank branch functioning from the said premises.
Is stamp duty payable on a Factoring agreement?
No, no stamp duty is payable on a factoring agreement, as per the exception allowed in section 8D of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899.
What is the timeline for NOI filing in Maharashtra?
In Maharashtra NOI filing to be done within 30 days from the date of mortgage. However, if NOI filing is a pre-disbursement condition, the same has to be done upfront in spite of the statutory timeline.
What to do in case of discrepancy in executed version of facility documents and Credit Arrangement Letter (CAL) terms?
Corporate Legal Group dealing officer to be consulted
Whether companys rubber stamp should also be affixed when the authorized signatory puts his/her initials on the blanks/ minor corrections made in the documents? Not required.
How is pledge created on dematerialized shares?
Upon execution of the share pledge agreement and filing of the Form 28/ Pledge Request Form (as applicable), the Pledgor will have to instruct its Depository Participant to create pledge. The Participant of the Bank/ pledgee shall request confirmation of creation of pledge on receipt of such form. On receipt of the request and confirmation for creation of pledge from the Pledgor and Pledgee respectively through their Participants, the pledge is created by the Depository.
Is it necessary to obtain identity and address proof of beneficial owners of a trust for the purposes of account opening?
Yes, identity and address proof of beneficial owners of a trust is required prior to opening an account in the name of a trust. In case of public trusts, the identity and address proof of settlors and trustees needs to be collected, as per detailed process laid down in e-Circular 13799. In case of private trusts, identity and address proof of settlors, trustees and beneficiaries (holding 15% or more) needs to be collected, as per detailed process laid down in e-Circular 13799.
What is the difference between a one person company (OPC) and a sole proprietorship?
One Person Company (OPC) is a company with just one member/shareholder and is considered as a separate legal entity from its shareholder. The liability of the shareholder is limited to share capital of the company. In case of death of the sole shareholder, then the person named in the memorandum of the company will be the shareholder. 
A Sole Proprietorship means an entity which is run and owned by one individual and where there is no distinction between the owner and the business. It does not have a legal existence separate from the proprietor. A sole proprietorship has unlimited liability. There is no perpetual succession and the sole proprietorship will dissolve in case of death of the proprietor.
Can ICICI Bank, as an account/escrow bank, agree to receive instructions from parties for operation of escrow account(s) via email?
Yes, if email is recognized as a valid mode for providing instructions in the escrow agreement and an e-mail indemnity clause has been captured in the escrow agreement.
Are guarantee/ security transactions for loans granted by  a company to its wholly owned subsidiaries exempted from Sections 185 or 186 of the Companies Act?
Yes, provided that in case of loan, the said loans is utilized by the subsidiary company for its principal business activities.
What is the process for activation of an inactive savings account?
An inactive savings account will be automatically activated if a customer-induced transaction is conducted. If the Customer requests to activate the inactive account without doing a transaction, then the same process as applicable for activation of dormant account and as laid down under eCircular No. 9574 shall be applicable.
Who can take a premises under lease or leave and license?
Any individual who is legally competent to enter into a contract may take a property under lease or leave and license
How to pay stamp duty?
The document which is chargeable with stamp duty can be prepared on the non-judicial stamp paper of appropriate value. Unexecuted document can be got franked with special adhesive stamps by franking machine intended for stamping such documents, by tendering required amount in the office of Collector of Stamps wherever this facility is available. When document is lodged for adjudication, the Collector of Stamp shall certify the document as to the payment of proper duty upon being satisfied that amount of stamp duty payable (including penalty if any) has been duly paid.
What is the principle of confidentiality and integrity under the General Data Protection Regulations 
(GDPR)?
According to this principle, data should be processed in a manner that ensures appropriate security of the personal data including protection against unlawful processing or accidental loss, destruction or damage.
Can stamp papers with different dates (on or before the date of execution) be accepted?
Yes, this is acceptable, so long as the stamp paper is purchased on or before the date of execution, and has not expired.
When facilities are being taken over from other banks / lenders, what are the documents which are required to be taken from such banks / lenders and when?
This will vary on case to case basis and the matter needs to be referred to Corporate Legal Group.
Whether the normal saving bank account can be converted into Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account  (BSBDA)  at the request of customer?
Yes. Such customers should give their consent in writing and they should be informed of the features and extent of services available in Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account (BSBDA)
Can refund be sought on unused stamp papers in the state of Maharashtra?
Unused Stamp Papers can be returned and refund can be sought within a period of 6 months from the date of issue of the stamp paper.
Which documents should Infra Facility Manager(IFM) collect from owner for obtaining Title Search Report(TSR)?
All chain title documents, copy of approved building plan, copy of Occupation Certificate(OC)/ 
Completion Certificate(CC), payment of property taxes at commercial rate, Builder No Objection Certificate(NOC)/ Society No Objection Certificate(NOC), Utility Bills Paid as on date has to be collected by Infra Facility Manager(IFM).
In which account can foreign contribution be received by a person required to obtain registration/prior permission from the Central Government for this purpose under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act, 2010?
Any person who has approval to receive foreign contribution is required to receive the same only in a single account through one of the branches of a bank which is specified in the application at the time of seeking approval. No funds other than foreign contribution shall be received or deposited in such account.
Who is an authorised dealer under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA)?
An authorised dealer is included under in the definition of authorised person under Section 2(c) of FEMA, which states that an authorised person means an authorised dealer, money changer, offshore banking unit or any other person authorised under section 10 (1) to deal in foreign exchange and foreign securities.
Can I initiate or proceed with SARFAESI proceedings during pendency the morotorium period of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC)?
No proceedings can be initiated against the Corporate Debtor under SARFAESI Act . Proceedings are stayed while you may proceed against the Corporate Guarantor and/or Personal Guarantor.
Who can approve any modifications to standard draft of Letter of Comfort (LOC)?
Kindly refer the footnotes provided in the standard draft of Letter of Comfort available on DMS. They provide for approving authority for changes to the standard draft of LOC.
Are modifications in names of a customer permissible in case of an existing running account? No, unless the customer has changed his/her name and the old and new names are published in the official Gazette (Notification). In such cases, the name of the account holder can be changed consistent with the new name specified in the Gazette Notification, upon an application for change of name being submitted by the account holder. The process laid down in e-circular 15436 is to be followed.
What if Bank official receives a Summons from a Court directing presence of the Bank official in court for adducing evidence in 'Third party' cases or cases in which the Bank is not a party? The summoned official needs to attend court and adduce evidence based on Bank records, only for specific question relating to Bank role in specific transaction for which witness / evidence has been called.
Can nomination facility be provided to TASC customers?
No. Please refer to the process laid down in e-circular 13799 in this regard
